the housing division made excellent progress in 2017
our broader service offering, incorporating our new homes capability 
alongside housing management and maintenance, supports our involvement 
in new emerging placemaking partnerships, where our involvement extends 
beyond traditional outsourcing and is focused on creating more 
sustainable communities. we have broadened the services we offer across the sphere of affordable 
housing. our clients are increasingly looking for partners who can operate 
strategically as well as operationally across a range of housing 
services. mears has extended its core reactive and planned 
maintenance offering to include housing management to 
support clients in delivering more integrated solutions, 
aligned to their strategic challenges. → exceptional loss of £16.5m reported in discontinued activities relating to 
the full provision against performance guarantees in the legacy m&e division. our new care contract 
in staffordshire
  r ead fr om page 35
our services
 → independent 
living services
 → aids and adaption
 → complex care
 → assistive technology
 → live-in care
 → extra care
our customers
 → local authorities
 → community groups
 → charities
 → nhs
strategic report
03
mears group plc
annual report and accounts 2017 chairman’s statement
“ we continue to take a long-term approach 
to how we run the business, reflected by 
the well-established leadership team that 
thoroughly understands the strategy and 
operational workings of the business. → we have reassessed how we guide our investors and city 
analysts. our second half revenues of £429.4m 
(2016: £473.9m) showed a significant reduction versus those 
delivered in the first half of £470.8m (2016: £466.2m) 
reflecting the delays in the timing of our planned workload 
as clients’ attentions was diverted towards ensuring that 
their housing portfolios were safe and fully compliant. this is 
achieved through works 
management systems, 
conservative accounting 
policies and a culture of 
giving attention to detail. we will continue to take a 
long-term approach to how we run the business, reflected 
in the well-established leadership team that thoroughly 
understands the strategy and operational workings of the 
business. our strategic priorities 
are the building blocks 
of our business
  see them on page 16
summary
 → we have a strict and continuing discipline when bidding 
new contract opportunities. → we are looking to appoint an employee director to the 
board to ensure that the board gets full, open and 
honest insight and views from its workforce on how 
strategic initiatives are being implemented. strategic report
01 our year in summary
02 at a glance
04 chairman’s statement
07 chief executive’s strategy overview
09 q&a with ceo, david miles
10 business model
12 market report
16 our strategic priorities
18 how have we performed? 22 risk management and principal risks
27 viability statement
28 review of operations
29 housing 
33 care
36 financial review
41 social value
corporate governance
49 introduction to corporate governance
50 your board
52 corporate governance report
58 report of the nomination committee
60 report of the audit committee
65 report of the remuneration committee
66 remuneration policy
73 annual remuneration report 2017
80 report of the directors
82 statement of directors’ responsibilities
83 independent auditor’s report
financial statements
group financial statements
91 principal accounting policies – group
103 consolidated income statement
104 consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
105 consolidated balance sheet
106 consolidated cash flow statement
107 consolidated statement of changes in equity
108 notes to the financial statements – group
company financial statements
139 principal accounting policies – company
142 parent company balance sheet
143 parent company statement 
of changes in equity
144 notes to the financial statements – company
shareholder information
151 five-year record (unaudited)
152 shareholder and corporate information
housing page 29 care page 33 key highlights
 → group revenue of £900.2m (2016: £940.1m), impacted by both delays to the timing 
of planned workloads and a slow period in securing new contract revenues in housing, 
combined with the planned rationalisation of care contracts. → housing revenues of £766.1m (2016: £787.5m), a reduction of 3%, impacted by 
the timing of our planned workloads following the tragic events at grenfell tower, 
and combined with a slow period in securing new contract revenues. → care revenue decreased by 12% to £134.1m (2016: £152.6m), reflecting the 
restructuring of the care contract portfolio following the closure of branches 
accounting for around 27% of care revenues. strategic relationships
we listen carefully to the 
needs of our clients and  
their tenants. during the year, housing 
and care have been at the top of the political agenda 
and we believe our differentiated offering has never 
been more relevant. the events seen in the wider 
outsourcing sector have been frustrating, where 
company-specific issues have been perceived to 
have wider sector implications. the benefit of having this narrow focus is that we 
understand our markets, we understand the challenges faced 
by our clients and we are well placed to provide innovative 
solutions to address those challenges. mears group plc
annual report and accounts 2017
shaping 
the future
mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 who we are
mears is a market leader in 
providing housing management 
and maintenance services to  
the affordable housing sector 
and a major presence in the 
homecare and support market. → new separate debt facility of £30m to fund short-term purchase of properties 
as part of the group’s development of longer-term homelessness solutions. in particular , our acquisition of omega in 2014 has unlocked a 
large number of new housing management opportunities. strategic report
04
mears group plc
annual report and accounts 2017 our values
customers and 
communities
we value our customers and 
communities, putting the 
needs of our customers at 
the heart of what we do. → group profit before tax and before amortisation of acquisition intangibles reduced to 
£37.1m (2016: £40.1m), with the diluted eps reducing by 8% to 28.05p (2016: 30.36p). → housing operating margins reduced to 5.2% (2016: 5.6%), reflecting the revenue 
reduction and a resulting lower overhead recovery. → service quality remains our key differentiator; the proportion of customers rating 
our service as ‘excellent’ showed further improvement at 92% (2016: 91%). → ebitda to cash conversion of 61% (2016: 70%) is below our historical norm, 
reflecting the changing sales mix. the restructuring is now complete 
and our remaining care contracts have a much improved mix of longevity, 
certainty of spend and price. the quality of the new orders secured continues to improve in terms of both 
charge rates and contract lengths. the strategic 
evolution of mears means greater access to opportunities previously out of our reach. we will look 
to make further acquisitions to reinforce our market-leading position, 
however our primary focus remains organic growth. we carry out 6,000 repairs  
a day in homes across the uk. we randomly conduct over 
80,000 housing customer 
surveys each year. we provide personal care to  
over 15,000 elderly and disabled people. we deliver broad solutions to the 
independent living challenges faced 
by so many elderly people, as well 
as younger people with physical 
or mental disabilities. mears will 
remain highly selective and we will not change our bidding model which has served 
us well over many years. ”
bob holt
chairman
while it has been a challenging year, i am pleased to 
report a year of operational progress and that the 
group is very well positioned to benefit as our core 
markets continue to develop. we have, over recent 
months, needed to remind stakeholders of how 
mears is different from the competition. mears is a very simple business.