annual 
report & 
accounts 
2017
james fisher and sons plc
fisher house
po box 4
barrow-in-furness
cumbria
la14 1hr
t: 01229 615 400
f: 01229 836 761
e: enquiries@james-fisher.com
this report has been printed in the uk. if you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested 
readers, return it to james fisher and sons plc or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. thank you. this annual report is available at www.james-fisher.com
james fisher and sons plc annual report 2017 www .james-fisher .com
designed and produced by perivan 3
james fisher and sons plc annual report and accounts 2017
119
disclaimer
this annual report has been prepared for the members of the company only. the company, its directors, employees and 
agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document and any such responsibility 
or liability is expressly disclaimed. as such the forward-looking statements 
involve risk and uncertainty. our companies 
and services have a focus on 
marine related activities which 
operate in potentially demanding 
environments where specialist skills 
are rewarded. 4
james fisher and sons plc annual report and accounts 2017
chief executive’s review
nick henry, chief executive officer
group strategy 
the group’s strategy is to grow its 
business organically by leveraging 
its existing marine skill base in 
specialist expertise to a global market, 
supplemented by selective bolt-
on acquisitions which broaden the 
group’s range of services, products or 
geographical coverage. governance financial statements strategic report
james fisher and sons plc annual report and accounts 2017 1
james fisher and sons plc annual report and accounts 2017
financial statements governance strategic report financial statements governance strategic report 
highlights
2017 2016 % change
revenue £505.4m £466.0m +9%
underlying operating profit* £55.8m £50.8m +10%
underlying profit before tax* £50.3m £45.8m +10%
underlying diluted earnings per share* 81.4p 76.3p +7%
total dividend per share 28.70p 26.15p +10%
statutory profit before tax £49.0m £44.9m +9%
statutory diluted earnings per share 79.5p 78.7p +1%
* excludes separately disclosed items. group revenue for the year grew by 9% to 
£505.4m (2016: £466.0m). an increase in 
the group’s underlying effective tax rate 
to 17.2%, (2016: 15.4%), held back the 
increase in underlying diluted earnings 
per share to 7% at 81.4 pence per share. statutory diluted earnings per share were 
79.5 pence (2016: 78.7 pence). our printers are environmental management system iso 
14001-accredited and forest stewardship council® (fsc®) chain of custody certified. specialist technical has 
market-leading positions in both its 
hyperbaric and submarine rescue niches 
and in its reactor decommissioning 
business in the nuclear sector. jfms provides a 
wide range of services to the offshore 
wind and tidal sector to support both 
the construction and maintenance 
of this fast-growing industry. the company repairs offshore 
wind farm rotor blades through innovative 
use of suspended work platforms and 
ultra violet resin curing techniques which 
reduce operational downtime. this paper is 
environmentally friendly ecf (elemental chlorine-free) and wood free with a high content of selected pre-consumer 
recycled material. the mill is fully fsc-certified. the paper is also completely bio-degradable and recyclable. the purchase of rotos 360 limited in 
march 2017 for an initial consideration 
of £1.5m and eds hv group limited in 
december 2017 for £9.0m have further 
extended our range of market-leading 
services to the offshore renewables sector. nothing in this 
annual report should be construed as a profit forecast. apms include underlying operating profit, 
underlying profit before tax, underlying diluted earnings per share, underlying return on capital employed and cash conversion. tankships continued its run of 
profit increases generated by high vessel 
utilisation levels and careful attention to 
costs. our strategic 
aim is to deliver long-term growth in 
earnings per share and consistently 
to increase shareholder value. marine support is benefiting 
from the opening of new markets for sts, 
such as in brazil, from the development 
of its subsea project businesses, and 
from its expanding presence in offshore 
renewables. the business, which distributes clean 
petroleum products around the northern 
european coastline, maintained high 
vessel utilisation and tight control of 
costs and continued its excellent track 
record of carrying out its operations 
to high standards of health and safety. it services 
commercial shipbuilding, ship refurbishment, 
defence, port developments and the oil and gas 
markets for project applications. fendercare is also the leading provider of 
ship-to-ship services for the transfer of crude or 
refined oil, liquefied natural gas or bulk cargoes. this annual report contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to future 
events including, amongst other matters, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries 
and markets in which the group operates and the availability of financing to the group. accordingly, whilst it is believed the expectations reﬂected in these statements are reasonable at 
the date of publication of this annual report they may be affected by a wide range of matters which could cause actual results 
to differ materially from those anticipated. notes:
james fisher and sons plc uses alternative performance measures (apms) as key financial indicators to assess the underlying performance of the business. apms are 
used by management as they are considered to better reflect business performance and provide useful additional information. we employ 2,700 people across 
18 countries. •   revenue up 9% and exceeded £500m for the first time;
•   underlying operating profit up 10%:
 •   increases in marine support, specialist technical and tankships;
 •   marine support ahead 17%;
•   underlying profit before tax 10% higher at £50.3m;
•   dividends increased for 23rd consecutive year, up 10% to  
28.70p per share. three of our four divisions improved their 
results with marine support leading the 
way with a 17% improvement in profits 
generated by new markets in brazil, the 
middle east and offshore renewables. the underlying strength of the group’s 
performance and the positive outlook 
for the year ahead has led the board to 
propose an increase in the final dividend to 
19.3 pence (2016: 17.6 pence) per share 
making a total for the year of 28.7 pence 
per share, an increase of 10% compared 
with 2016.
strategic overview
over the last ten years, with the exception 
of 2015, james fisher has increased its 
profit and dividends every year, normally 
by more than 10%: this despite external 
events such as the financial crisis of 
2007-8, the fall in oil prices in 2014 
and most recently, brexit. through innovation 
and acquisition we have developed 
market-leading businesses through 
our four divisions: marine support, 
specialist technical, offshore oil 
and tankships. the rapid growth of our ship-to-ship 
(sts) transfer business from 2007; the 
development of a market-leading position 
in submarine rescue and hyperbaric 
engineering since 2012 and more recently, 
the growth of a completely new activity 
in offshore renewables have enabled the 
group to absorb these external shocks and 
continue to grow. justin was until recently the 
ceo of the keller group plc, a ftse 250 
business in the international construction 
sector. in january 2017, 
fergus graham joined the group having 
worked previously at de la rue plc and 
other international companies in both 
operations and cross-border business 
development.