introducing the group’s
purpose and values
living our values 03
strategic report
www.arrowglobalir.net
highlights 2017
delivering growth
financial highlights
• 24% underlying eps growth
• strong underlying roe growth
• increased capital-light asset 
management revenues
• 84-month and 120-month erc growth
• strengthened balance sheet: continue to 
reduce cost of funding and extend duration
operational highlights
• diversified portfolio purchases by geography 
and asset class
• continued to outperform underwriting 
forecasts; performance at 103%
• maintained stable returns across all geographies
• ‘one arrow’ investment programme 
launched driving future efficiency gains 
and sustainable growth
profit before tax
£50.6m
(2016: £31.4m)
assets under management
€53.4bn
colleagues
1,464
customer accounts
9.8m
different geographies
6
full-year dividend
11.3p
(2016: 9.1p)
underlying profit after tax
£56.6m
(2016: £45.6m)
diversified revenue streams
22.3%
asset management
77.7%
debt purchase
total purchased loan portfolios and loan notes 
£951.5m
(2016: £804.1m)
total revenue 
£319.0m
(2016: £235.9m)
important notes:
ifrs, cash metrics and underlying results are important to understand the key drivers of 
the business. a glossary of the terms can be found on pages 138 to 140. 05
strategic report
www.arrowglobalir.net
this strong performance enables us to propose a final 2017 
dividend of 8.1p, bringing the full year dividend to 11.3p 
(2016: 9.1p) which is at the top of our payout range. jonathan bloomer
chairman
1 march 2018
  for more information see our corporate governance report on page 46 strategic report
arrow global group plc – annual report and accounts 2017
06
at a glance
 our business today
our purpose
building better
financial futures
our business
debt purchase
a year of strong collections growth
core collections
£342.2m (+19 .7%)
asset management
another record year of revenue growth
revenue
£71.1m (+53.5%)
 read more about our ﬁ nancial performance on page 20
our aim
to be the most sophisticated purchaser and 
specialist asset manager of debt portfolios 
across all of our markets. we have a clear plan in place to continue to grow 
this business as we identify further high value niches within 
our large markets where arrow’s superior technology, data 
and relationships provide us with a competitive advantage. in order to embed these into our company dna and 
group-wide approach to our operations, the management 
team embarked on a series of roadshows around all countries 
in the group to present their vision for the business and get 
feedback from employees. looking forward
i am pleased that arrow has registered another year of 
strong growth and that so much has been achieved to 
integrate the business more fully, ensuring we are well 
positioned to continue to deliver the consistent financial 
performance we have registered since ipo. the opportunities for arrow 
are significant and i believe we have the right skill set at all 
levels of the company to capitalise on them and continue 
to deliver growth and value. the evolution of our model
our strategy of building top three positions in our chosen 
european markets has remained on track throughout 2017. 
the servicing capabilities we have continued to build, 
underpinned by the strong relationships we have with 
institutional investors, has meant our asset management 
division has been the fastest growing part of the group. this revised structure has allowed management 
at the group level to focus on strategy, origination and capital 
allocation. our model consists of both 
primary servicing (where we service the debt directly for clients) and 
master servicing (where we provide oversight on behalf of our clients 
to ensure their portfolio is placed with the best primary servicer 
to deliver their investment targets). specialist partners 
we have over 110 client relationships. we are a more diversified group than ever before, growing 
the geographical and asset class mix of our debt purchase 
business by investing 36.7% of our capital in the uk, 24.7% 
in portugal, 18.9% in italy and 19.7% in benelux. profit after tax increased by 51.7% to £39.9 million giving 
an increase in basic earnings per share of 51.0% to 22.8p. financially, we have again delivered against our guidance, 
with underlying basic earnings per share increasing 24.1% 
to 32.4p and underlying return on equity increasing by 
3.8 percentage points to 32.9%. €45tr 
european
€16tr 
us
uk 22%
uk €60bn
netherlands  21%
italy  11%
italy  €342bn
ireland  22%
 ireland €59bn
portugal 13%
portugal €18bn
belgium <5%
belgium €23bn
1 source: fed and company estimate. the reconciliations and commentary on pages 24 and 25 have been prepared 
to aid this understanding, which helps to support the commentary of the financial review 
for the year. during the 
year, we completed the acquisitions of zenith in italy and 
mars capital in the uk and ireland, significantly enhancing 
our european capabilities. every collections colleague receives 
specialist training in handling vulnerable customers and all 
collection staff regularly undertake refresher courses. 2  source: open markets ‘how u.s. and eu capital markets are different’ http://openmarkets. we have continued to diversify our earnings, with further 
growth in our high quality, capital light income from our 
asset management business, which grew revenues by 53.5%. once 
again, balance sheet strength and management is key to the 
business’ success and earlier in the year we undertook a highly 
successful refinancing, securing a material reduction in our 
cost of funding with our weighted average cost of debt falling 
below 4.0% at the same time as extending duration. our core business model
1.  debt purchase 
we buy debt at a discount to face value and use our data, analytics, 
and collections expertise to provide our customers with flexible 
payment plans, resulting in collections significantly above cost 
of acquisition. 2. specialist asset management 
we advise on, manage and collect debt portfolios, generating fee 
income from clients. living our values
it’s been another successful 
year of growth and value 
creation for arrow global. we do this by being collaborative 
and supporting each other, wherever 
we work or reside. in october 2017, we committed to 
‘building better financial futures’ for 
our stakeholders, when we formally 
launched the group’s purpose and 
values in every country, and across 
all businesses. while we must continue to deliver 
against our targets and budgets, 
how we do this and the behaviours 
we adopt in doing so, are equally 
important. contents
strategic report
03 highlights 2017
04 chairman’s statement
06 at a glance
08 business model
12 market
14 our strategy
16 group chief executive officer’s review
20 group chief financial officer’s review
24 ifrs to cash result reconciliations 
26 executive management team
28 country reviews
34 our people
36 sustainability
38 principal risks & uncertainties
43 statement of viability
governance
44 board of directors
46 corporate governance report
51 audit committee report
56 risk committee report
58 nomination committee report
60 directors’ remuneration report
79 report of the directors
83 directors’ responsibilities statement
financial statements
84 independent auditor’s report
90 consolidated statement of profit or loss & other comprehensive income
91 consolidated & parent company statement of financial position
92 consolidated & parent company statement of changes in equity
93 consolidated & parent company statement of cash flows
94 notes to the financial statements
136 additional information (unaudited)
138 glossary
ibc shareholder information
  find out more about us at www.arrowglobalir.net we succeed together
taking ownership and ensuring a positive 
outcome for both our customers and our 
business. alongside the values, we introduced 
a group employee recognition 
scheme to all companies in the 
group. group governance
the group operates in a number of countries with strong 
local management teams that have responsibility for 
their operations. this structure has been enhanced by the 
appointment of dave sutherland as group chief operating 
officer, who the country management teams now report 
to. buil ding bett er 
 financial futures
annual report and accounts 2017 annual report and accounts 2017
annual report and accounts 2017 one arrow one arrow 
living our 
values
we continue to run the business 
in line with our ‘one arrow’ 
group values, and are proud of 
the role arrow global plays in 
‘building better financial futures’ 
for our stakeholders, ensuring a 
positive outcome for both our 
customers and the group. building better financial futures 
is inspirational and aspirational. 22.3%
77.7%
strategic report 04
strategic report
arrow global group plc – annual report and accounts 2017
further growth & 
consistent delivery
chairman’s statement
 “arrow global’s stated mission is 
to ‘build better financial futures’ 
and i believe that the strides the 
company has made this year put 
it in a stronger position to do 
this than ever before.”
another strong year of growth and delivery 
i am pleased to be able to present another strong set 
of financial results during a year which saw the company 
continue to register significant growth and add another 
market to our geographical footprint. the highly cash generative nature of this business has 
further improved the quality of the company’s earnings 
stream. the group has grown quickly 
and has been successful, steadily 
increasing our profit and delivered 
great returns for our shareholders. it is aspirational, as it will drive us 
to continually do better. our actions will become stories. and it is the stories that will make us 
who we are.