annual report  
and accounts 
2017 serco group plc is a leading provider 
of public services. our customers are 
governments or others operating in the 
public sector. now, serco is a ftse 250 
company managing over 500 contracts 
worldwide and employing over 50,000 
people across our operations. we deliver services through people, supported 
by effective processes, technology and skilled 
management. every year we run a 
detailed ‘viewpoint’ employee survey to gauge how well 
our colleagues think we are doing, and i am delighted to 
say that, for the fourth successive year, the aggregated 
measure of ‘employee engagement’ improved again in 
2017, with some 31,000 people responding. during the year, ralph crosby and angie risley stepped 
down from the board, both having joined serco during 
2011. i would like to extend my sincere thanks to both 
ralph and angie for the sterling service they have 
given the company through some very difficult times; 
in particular i would like to thank angie for her expert 
leadership of the remuneration committee. i was delighted to welcome three new non-executive 
directors – lynne peacock, ian el-mokadem and kirsty 
bashforth – each of whom bring highly relevant and 
complementary skills. lynne peacock has assumed 
chairmanship of the remuneration committee. we gain scale, expertise 
and diversification by operating 
internationally across five sectors and 
four geographies: defence, justice & 
immigration, transport, health and 
citizen services, delivered in uk & 
europe, north america, asia pacific  
and the middle east. serco's roots go back to 1929, and in 
1988 was listed on the london stock 
exchange. they 
guide us in our dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers, partners, 
shareholders and the communities we serve. whilst trading conditions are 
currently difficult in several of our markets, 
we have over the last three financial years 
delivered on the plan set out in 2015; having 
already stabilised the business, we have 
been improving our operating efficiency 
through our transformation programme. 2017 has produced tangible 
evidence of performing well against these objectives. delivering our strategic plan
in 2015, we set out a three-stage plan for serco: 
stabilisation, transformation, growth. stabilisation was 
largely completed in 2014 and 2015 with the recruitment 
of a new management team, recapitalising the business 
and delivering the corporate renewal programme. transformation then started in earnest, and will 
continue through 2018 and 2019. in 2018 we expect to 
also start delivering the third phase – growth. our geographical footprint
our method
our values
americas 
£688m
21%
uk & europe 
£1,685m
51% middle east 
£352m
10%
asia pacific 
£585m
18%
our deliverables
we consider the tangible evidence of our success or otherwise can be measured in the three key planned outcomes 
of our strategy:
employee engagement  
>60% and increasing
trading margin  
~5–6%
revenue growth  
~5–7%
revenue in 2017 (including share of joint ventures and associates). serco group plc annual report and accounts 2017 06 after exceptional items, net finance costs and tax,  
the profit for the year was £0.1m. this equates to 
ebitda leverage of 1.4x, well within our medium-term 
target range of 1–2x and comfortably below the 3.5x 
debt covenant requirement. • we continue to mitigate the impact of loss-making 
contracts; we have always regarded our onerous 
contract provisions as a portfolio, knowing that the 
actual out-turn on individual contracts would almost 
certainly be different from the original estimates 
made at the end of 2014. up to the end of 2017, actual 
expenditure against the £447m of onerous contract 
provisions has been very close to the original estimate. our customers define what outcomes 
or services they need to deliver, and we develop 
new and more effective ways to deliver them. we 
deliver innovative solutions to some of the most 
complex challenges facing governments, bringing our 
experience, capability and scale to deliver the service 
standards, cost efficiencies and policy outcomes 
governments want. we can improve the way we bid and manage 
contracts; develop innovative propositions; measure performance; reduce the cost and improve the quality of our 
administrative systems and processes. our customers define what 
outcomes or services they need to deliver, and we 
develop new and more effective ways to deliver them. contents
strategic report
04  at a glance
06 chairman’s statement
09 our business
18 key performance indicators
20 principal risks and uncertainties
30 viability statement
32 chief executive’s review
44 divisional reviews
50 finance review
69 corporate responsibility
directors’ report
86 corporate governance report
 86 board of directors
 8 8  c h a i r m a n ' s g o v e r n a n c e 
overview
 91 board and governance
 93  group risk committee report
 96 audit committee report
 1 0 2  n o m i n a t i o n c o mm i t t e e r e p o r t
 1 0 5  c o r p o r a t e r e s p o n s i b i l i t y 
committee report
 108   compliance with the uk 
corporate governance code
110 remuneration report
144 directors' report
150  directors' responsibility statement
financial statements
152 independent auditor’s report
158 consolidated income statement
1 5 9  c o n s o l i d a t e d st a t e m e n t  
of comprehensive income
1 6 0  c o n s o l i d a t e d st a t e m e n t  
of changes in equity
161 consolidated balance sheet
162  consolidated cash flow statement
163  notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
228 company balance sheet
229  company statement of  
changes in equity
230  notes to the company  
financial statements
234 appendix: list of subsidiaries
2 3 7  a p p en d i x : s u p p l emen t a r y 
information
238 shareholder information
239 useful contacts
+50,000
employees
+500
contracts
 +20
countries
for more and the latest information please visit our website at:
www.serco.com
serco group plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report
09
06
04
32
30
18
20
44
50
69
chairman's  
statement
at a glance
our business  
viability  
statement
key performance 
indicators
chief executive’s  
review
finance  
review
principal risks  
and uncertainties
divisional  
reviews
corporate  
responsibility
03
financial statements directors’ report strategic report
03 our core sectors
our business is focused across five core sectors and four geographies, with 
revenue in 2017 (including share of joint ventures and associates) of £3,310m
strategic report
our purpose at serco is to be a trusted partner of 
governments, delivering superb public services that 
transform outcomes and make a positive difference  
for our fellow citizens. financial statements directors’ report strategic report
05 strategic report
i am delighted that we have delivered a 
trading result in line with expectations in 
2017 , as well as over £3bn of order intake 
and a further improvement in employee 
engagement. you can read more about all of these points in the chief 
executive’s review on pages 32 to 43.
achieving our financial targets
our initial guidance for 2017 underlying trading 
profit was between £65m and £70m, with the result of 
£69.8m therefore coming in at the top of that range. you can read more about the drivers of financial 
performance in the chief executive’s review, with 
further detail provided in the divisional reviews on 
pages 44 to 49 and the finance review on pages 50  
to 68. 
targeting further progress
as we look ahead to 2018, we expect underlying 
trading profit to grow to around £80m on revenues of 
£2.8–2.9bn. since our success in delivering 
is almost entirely dependent on people, we believe 
that such an ambition is a worthy and value-creating 
aspiration, and one that we can use to inspire our 
management teams and customers. in this way we make a positive 
difference to the lives of millions of people around  
the world, and help keep nations safe. these are the things we want serco to be famous for:
being profitable  
and sustainable
winning good 
business
executing 
brilliantly
being a place 
people are  
proud to work
we try to make sure that everything we do improves our performance against one or more of these objectives, 
and start from a position where we know we can do much better. importantly, as we now look ahead, we 
expect profits to start to grow over the  
next two years. none of these comes easily or quickly, and we need to steer a tricky course 
between the urgent need to reduce our costs in line with reduced revenues in the short term and investing in 
systems and processes that will produce sustainable benefits in the long term. this represents a book-to-bill ratio – the value 
of how much we add to the order book compared to 
how much revenue we are billing our customers – of 
over 100%, the first time this has been achieved since 
2012. the strong order intake, with very large contracts 
won in health and justice, underlines the progress we 
have made developing our customer propositions and 
business development skills. second, the work we have done transforming the 
business enabled us to meet our target of reducing the 
run-rate of our overheads by over £100m by the end of 
2017. we expect to gain further cost efficiency benefits 
in 2018, notably from merging the uk operations into 
a single entity, as well as further reducing our other 
central support costs. supporting this, we achieved our targeted cost 
savings through the delivery of operational efficiency 
improvements. our ambition is to be considered the best-managed 
business in our sector. pg
09
for more information  
on our business
at a glance
what we do, and how we do it
our purpose and ambition
serco delivers services to governments and other institutions 
who serve the public or protect vital national interests. trust
innovation
care
pride
pg
15
for more information 
on our values
pg
14
for more information  
on our performance framework
pg
16
for more information 
on our deliverables
the method we use to deliver our aspiration – to be the best-managed business in our sector – and to deliver our  
strategy is to concentrate on doing four things really well. we have also added further 
skills and diversity to the board, with strong 
governance being a key focus of the business 
at all levels.