tech n o l o g y p l c
annual report 
2017
castleton t echnology plc annual report 2017  castleton technology plc annual report 2017
introduction  
and performance
in this report
strategic report
01 operational highlights
02 chairman’s statement
04 chief executive’s review
08 financial review
12 strategic report
governance
14  board of directors 
15 advisers
16 corporate governance statement
18 directors’ remuneration report
20 directors’ report
22  statement of directors’ responsibilities
23   independent auditor’s report to the 
members of castleton technology plc
financial statements 
26  consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
27 consolidated balance sheet
28  consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
29 consolidated cash flow statement
30  notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
56  company balance sheet
57 company statement of changes in equity
58 company cash flow statement
59  notes to the company 
financial statements
the year has primarily been 
one of consolidation and 
we continue to see enormous 
potential to become the go-to 
supplier for software and 
it services in the social 
housing market. david payne
non-executive chairman strategic report
governance
financial statements
03 castleton technology plc annual report 2017
dear shareholder
i am pleased to be able to report on 
another year of solid progress for 
castleton. dean dickinson
chief executive  strategic report
governance
financial statements
05 castleton technology plc annual report 2017
overview
i am pleased to report the significant 
progress the group has made during 
the financial year to 31 march 2017 . going concern
the directors have prepared detailed 
cash flow projections including 
sensitivity analysis on key assumptions. dean dickinson joined the board as 
ceo on 31 october 2016, replacing ian 
smith who became executive deputy 
chairman. dean was previously 
managing director of advanced 
business solutions, part of advanced 
computer software group limited 
(previously advanced computer 
software plc (“ acs”)), where he led the 
impressive growth of the public sector 
and enterprise division following the 
acquisition of coa solutions in 2010. 
dean was part of the senior management 
team that sold acs to vista private equity 
for £725 million in march 2015. 
caro bell resigned from the board as 
operations director on 30 august 2016 
having joined in november 2015 and 
davinder sanghera resigned from the 
board as chief operations officer on 
16th january 2017 having joined when 
documotive was acquired by castleton 
in november 2014. davinder was 
appointed as chief operations officer on 
9 april 2015. i would like to thank them 
both for the hard work they have put in 
to help make castleton the company it 
is today. david payne
chairman
17 july 2017 04 castleton technology plc annual report 2017
chief executive’s 
review
each of the acquisitions has 
brought best in class 
software solutions or 
managed services capability. in january this year, two new contracts 
were announced, namely a ten-
year agreement with clúid housing 
association (“clúid”) in ireland and a 
five-year contract with arcon housing 
association (“ arcon”) in manchester. with respect to the year under review, 
i am encouraged that we have 
demonstrated our ability to improve 
the mix of sales as the company has 
successfully transitioned to targeting 
multiyear saas software revenues 
whilst continuing to grow our overall 
sales. a key success in the year has 
been clearly demonstrating the highly 
cash generative nature of our business 
model which facilitated a reduction in our 
net debt. our contracted 
backlog of revenue has grown by over 
40%, which gives us good forward 
visibility of revenue. not only does this show traction in our 
intention to cross-sell and our customers’ 
confidence in our product suite, but also 
means that 65% of our customer base 
still uses just one product, providing 
a very strong opportunity for further 
organic growth. the cost of the plc 
board and its advisors)
*** net cash less borrowings, deferred consideration, contingent 
consideration and convertible loan notes. the first is a seven year 
contract with north hertfordshire homes 
and the second a three year contract 
with a community regeneration and 
housebuilding company. under the terms of the agile licence, 
castleton will pay agile £600,000 per 
year over a three year period with the 
potential for a further payment of at least 
£300,000 in the year to 31 march 2020 
dependent on total sales during the first 
three years of the agreement. finance income and costs
finance income represents the interest 
earned on deferred income from the sale 
of the consulting business sold in 2015, 
and finance costs comprise interest 
payable on bank borrowings and the 
interest and unwind of discount on the 
convertible loan notes issued in january 
2016 to part fund the acquisition of 
kypera (“loan notes”). 4. david payne
non-executive chairman
david payne is chair of the 
remuneration committee and a member 
of the audit and nomination committees 
of the board of directors. phil sits on both the audit 
and remuneration committees. all directors are subject to appraisal by the board. the non-executive director is responsible for the evaluation of the chairman. there remain significant cross-selling 
opportunities within the customer base 
in order to provide our customers with 
the technology and services that they 
require. the range of solutions 
provides customers with 
significant improvements in 
service, performance and 
insight. i arrived at the end of october 2016 with 
the company having made multiple 
acquisitions in prior years and the start 
of the financial year saw castleton 
improve the terms of its existing 
exclusive reseller agreement with 365 
agile group plc (“ agile”) granting us 
an exclusive licence for agile’s suite 
of mobile working software solutions 
in relation to the social housing sector. each of the acquisitions has brought best 
in class software solutions and managed 
services capability, so the foundations for 
a successful and scalable business were 
already in place. following the acquisitive 
growth of fy2015 and fy2016, fy2017 
has been a year of consolidation as 
we put in place firm foundations for 
the group to build on its position as a 
successful niche player in software and 
it managed services within the public 
sector market place. the acquisition 
of seven small companies brings great 
rewards but also significant integration 
efforts. despite early teething issues 
previously noted, i’m delighted to say 
that the business has now dealt with 
these and as we enter our fourth year, we 
fully expect the company to demonstrate 
its growth potential. the board
there have been changes at board 
level as the group puts in place our 
foundations for future growth. strategic report
governance
financial statements
01 castleton technology plc annual report 2017
operational 
highlights
 – t urnover of £20.3 million (2016: £18.0 million)
 – adjusted ebitda of £4.4 million (2016: £3.6 million)
 – acquisition of mobile technology ip in the year
 – cash generated from operations of £4.6 million (2016: £0.6 million)
 – basic eps up to 0.59p (2016: loss of 1.56p)
 – over 60% of revenue is recurring 02 castleton technology plc annual report 2017
chairman’s 
statement
there remain significant  
cross-selling opportunities 
within the customer base  
for us to provide our 
customers with the 
technology and services  
that they require. trading results
revenue for the year showed an 
increase of 13% to £20.3 million 
(2016: £18 million) with in excess of 60% 
of revenue being recurring in nature 
(2016: 58%). adjusted ebitda * showed 
a stronger performance, improving by 
22% to £4.4 million (2016: £3.6 million), 
reflecting the company’s operational 
gearing and ability to scale profitably. the 
managed services division’s trading 
ebitda ** grew 32% year on year as 
we look to transition to more profitable 
deals. 06 castleton technology plc annual report 2017
chief executive’s 
review continued
castleton is well positioned 
to provide an eco-system 
of integrated modular 
solutions supported by 
scalable infrastructure 
platforms, helping 
organisations to operate 
more effectively and 
achieve their goals,  
whilst bringing visible 
recurring annuity revenues 
to the group. outlook
castleton is well positioned to provide 
an eco-system of integrated modular 
solutions supported by scalable 
infrastructure platforms, helping 
organisations to operate more effectively 
and achieve their goals, whilst bringing 
visible recurring annuity revenues to 
the group. with the exception 
of kypera, all acquired entities are on a 
common accounting platform across the 
group, which brings a greater degree of 
process and visibility to our back office 
operations. agile
on 4 april 2016, the group improved its 
existing exclusive reseller agreement 
with agile and entered into a new 
perpetual licence agreement whereby 
castleton was granted an exclusive 
licence for agile’s suite of mobile working 
software solutions in relation to the social 
housing sector (the “ agile licence”). the board has a formal written schedule of matters 
reserved for its review and approval. there are three standing board committees: audit, nominations and remuneration. during the year, the board met formally on ten occasions. the company’s articles of association require one-third of the directors to stand for re-election each year at the annual general 
meeting and that each director should seek re-election every 3 years.