it has been recommissioned for a third series. itv studios rest of world
 
itv studios also operates in the netherlands (through 
talpa media), germany, france, italy, australia and the nordics. we have partnered with the bbc to 
launch a new svod service, ‘britbox’, 
in the us and canada. we also own a best of british svod 
service, cirkus, in the nordics and 
germany, and an online service, itv 
choice, an entertainment channel 
for emerging markets available in 
100 countries. we have built signiﬁcant 
scale in key creative markets 
around the world, creating 
and producing programmes 
and formats that return 
and travel, namely drama, 
entertainment and factual 
entertainment. our investment in programming is 
primarily funded by television advertising 
revenue. we are also growing our presence in scripted 
content, using our strong cash flows to produce high-proﬁle 
dramas with the potential to travel and build international appeal. within this business, we also ﬁnance productions 
for itv and third parties to acquire global distribution rights. itv delivers strong operational 
performance in an uncertain 
economic environment
itv plc annual report and accounts
for the year ended 31 december 2017
itv plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 december 2017 we are an integrated producer 
broadcaster, creating, owning  
and distributing high-quality  
content on multiple platforms. c o n t e n t s pa g e : liar 
  f r o n t c ove r: the voice uk 1
strategic report governance financial statements additional information
 contents
management
and divisional
boards
operational 
risk steering 
group 
audit 
and risk 
committee
the board
operation and assurance: three lines of defence – business divisions, group functions, internal audit
business  
model
see  
page 
18
chairman’s 
statement
see page 6
finance  
review
see page 40
our performance 
in 2017
see page 22
how we  
manage risk
see page 50
key
  
read more content within  
this report
 
read more content online
key ﬁnancial highlights
group external revenue
1
 
£3,132m (+2%)
(2016: £3,064m)
non-nar revenue
2
 
£2,066m (+11%)
(2016: £1,855m)
adjusted ebita
3
 
£842m (-5%)
(2016: £885m)
adjusted eps 
16.0p (-6%)
(2016: 17 .0p)
statutory eps 
10.2p (-9%)
(2016: 11.2p)
dividend per share p (ordinary)
7 .8p (+8%)
(2016: 7 .2p)
chief executive’s 
report
see page 14
notes
alternative performance measures: we use both statutory and adjusted measures in our strategic report, the latter of which, 
in management’s view, reflects the underlying performance of the business and provides a more meaningful comparison of how the 
business is managed and measured day-to-day. a full reconciliation between our reported and adjusted results is provided in our 
alternative performance measures deﬁnitions on pages 34 and 35. our kpis are set out on pages 36 to 39. 2. non-net advertising revenue (non-nar) includes all itv revenue, both internal and external, except net advertising revenue (nar). none of these statements should be construed as a proﬁt forecast. this underlines the enduring strengths on 
which we’ll build our new revenue streams 
in the future. itv is an increasingly global and diversiﬁed organisation, with 
signiﬁcant non-advertising revenue streams reducing its 
dependency on uk advertising. itv is currently undertaking a strategic refresh to ensure it has a clear 
strategy and priorities which reflect what itv needs to be in three, 
ﬁve and ten years’ time. the 17th series 
averaged 10 million 
viewers and a 38% 
share. it was the 
most watched series 
for 16–34s on any 
channel in 2017, with 
2.5 million viewers 
and a 54% share. the chase goes from strength to strength with an average 
3.2 million viewers and a 25% share in 2017. the format was sold 
to four countries in 2017.
 cold feet returned for a second series, averaging 5.1 million viewers 
and a 21% share. broadchurch was 
the most watched 
drama in 2017. it 
averaged 10.7 million 
viewers and a 36% 
share, over a million 
more viewers than the 
previous two series. and we intend in the medium term also 
to widen our ethnic diversity beyond our 
current one bame member. and we see just as many 
opportunities to seize as threats to ward off. today, there’s quite rightly a growing 
emphasis on company culture and social 
purpose. but now they’re in even sharper focus. contents
strategic report
provides a comprehensive  
review of itv’s business  
and strategy. 2017 highlights 2
itv at a glance 4
chairman’s statement 6
investor proposition 8
market review 10
chief executive’s report 14
our strategy and business model 18
corporate responsibility 20
operating and performance review 22
alternative performance measures 34
key performance indicators 36
finance review 40
risks and uncertainties 50
governance
presents a clear view  
of itv’s governance. chairman’s governance statement 60
board of directors 62
management board 64
corporate governance 66
audit and risk committee report 72
remuneration report 82
directors’ report 98
financial statements
itv’s audited ﬁnancial  
statements for the year  
ended 31 december 2017 . financial statements  107
independent auditor’s report 108
primary statements 114
itv plc company financial 
statements 179
additional informationglossary 194
strategic report 
the strategic report explains in detail how we have performed this year and sets out a fair review of the business, 
a balanced and comprehensive analysis of our performance, the use of key performance indicators to explain the 
progress we have made, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, and an indication of 
potential future developments. it had the biggest 
16-24 audience of all digital channels in 2017.
in 2017 99% of all 
commercial audiences over 
5 million were on itv 4 itv plc  annual report and accounts 2017
strategic report
itv at 
a glance
itv, as an integrated producer broadcaster, 
creates, owns and distributes high-quality 
content on multiple platforms globally. we operate the largest 
commercial family of channels  
in the uk and deliver our content 
through linear television 
broadcasting as well as on 
demand via the itv hub and 
across other platforms globally. broadcast & 
online
itv studios
itv broadcasts a wide variety of content 
on its family of free-to-air channels. itv studios creates and produces 
content in the uk and internationally, 
while our distribution business, 
global entertainment, sells ﬁnished 
programmes and formats worldwide. we thank our former chief executive, 
adam crozier, along with the executive 
team for these important advances. and i’m very grateful to ian grifﬁths, 
who added the role of chief operating 
ofﬁcer to group finance director. and as a major employer of creative talent 
in manchester, leeds and london, our role 
in the nation’s growing creative economy 
is very important to us. i’d like to thank my board colleagues for 
their valuable support and input during 2017. 
we welcome margaret ewing as our vastly 
experienced new chair of the audit and risk 
committee. the voice format 
has been sold to 65 counties. we also have high deﬁnition 
versions of our digital channels available 
on pay platforms. itv delivered a strong operating 
performance with great on-screen and 
online viewing. we own the only such mass 
audience in the uk.