we work in partnership with our customers to solve 
real-world problems through innovative solutions, delivering 
operational and competitive advantage. emea services
 global products
air & space
what we do
de-risk complex aerospace programmes  
by testing systems and equipment, evaluating 
the risks and assuring safety. undertakes 
contract-funded research and development, 
developing intellectual property in 
partnership with key customers and 
through internal funding with potential 
for new revenue streams. optasense
what we do
provide innovative fibre sensing solutions  
to deliver decision-ready data in multiple 
vertical markets. revenue
c. £185m
key sites
farnborough and boscombe down, uk. revenue
c. £280m
key sites
farnborough, boscombe down, shoeburyness, 
fort halstead, hebrides, aberporth, pendine, 
west freugh, portsdown technology park  
and haslar, uk. revenue
c. £100m
key sites
farnborough, malvern and crewe, uk. revenue
c. £50m
key sites
australia, sweden, canada and dubai, uae. this target was used for tracking and live firing. maritime, land & weapons
what we do
deliver operational advantage to customers 
by providing independent research, evaluation 
and training services. cyber, information & training
what we do
help government and commercial customers 
respond to evolving threats based on our 
expertise in training, secure communication 
networks and devices, intelligence gathering 
and surveillance sensors, and cyber security. international
what we do
deliver our products and services in 
international markets. fy17^ summary
financial
orders
 £675.3m
2016: £659.8m
revenue
 £783.1 m
2016: £755.7m
underlying earnings per share*
 1 8.1 p
2016: 16.3p
basic earnings per share 
 21.5p
2016: 18.1p
non-financial
customer satisfaction (score out of 10)
 8.2
2016: 8.1
employee engagement (score out of 1,000)
 596
2016: 623
operational highlights
ltpa contract amendment 
signed the largest and most significant contract since privatisation 
to ensure the uk has world-class competitive air ranges and training 
for test pilots and aircrew. £ 1 bn
value of contract amendment
customers in 
over 40 countries
*  alternative performance measures 
alternative performance measures are used to supplement the statutory 
figures. ^  year references (fy17, fy16, 2017, 2016) refer to the year ending 31 march. underlying operating profit
*
 £ 11 6.3m 
2016: £108.9m
total operating profit
 £ 1 32.7 m
2016: £75.3m
health and safety (lost time incident rate (lti)) 
 5.7
2016: 5.0
investing in our future
in fy17 we drove operational efficiencies to create the headroom to invest 
in sustainable growth. the front cover image shows the launch of a banshee jet 40 in 
the desert in kuwait. definitions 
can be found in the glossary on page 151. *  definitions of the group’s ‘alternative 
performance measures’ can be found 
in the glossary on page 151. these deep dives are scheduled throughout the year 
with relevant members of qinetiq’s executive team 
and papers are submitted in advance so the focus 
is on two-way discussion rather than presentations. these productivity savings were reinvested in our 
people, technology and campaigns. capital allocation
unlocking qinetiq’s potential requires focused 
investment in growth coupled with continued capital 
discipline to ensure growing, sustainable returns. in 
recognition of this, our priorities for capital allocation 
are: organic investment complemented by bolt-on 
acquisitions where there is a strong strategic fit; the 
maintenance of balance sheet strength; a progressive 
dividend; and the return of excess cash to shareholders. revenue and operating profit were 
stable in emea services and up in global products, 
driven by growth in qinetiq north america. £20m reinvested
strategic report
an overview of our segments, and statements from both  
the chairman and ceo. principal risks, including our viability statement,  
along with more detailed discussion on our performance, 
both non-financial and financial. at a glance 2
chairman’s statement  4
chief executive officers’s review 6
our business model 8
market overview 10
an update on our home markets 12
strategy 14
key performance indicators 18
principal risks 22
operating review 26
people and relationships 30
resources and environment 33
chief financial officer’s review 34
corporate governance
our approach to corporate governance provided around the  
five principles of the uk code. our board of directors and  
our remuneration report. in the united states, where i have spent much of my 
working life, some of the political and economic 
conventions that have been in place for many years 
are being challenged and the board and i are working 
closely with qinetiq’s us leadership team to ensure 
that we are responding effectively to the new realities. in fy17, the group completed the purchase 
of two businesses to support our strategy, meggitt 
target systems in the uk and canada, and rubikon 
group in australia, its first significant acquisitions since 
2008. i would like to add my personal welcome to the 
employees of these two companies and wish them 
many rewarding years as part of the qinetiq group. employees
the visits have also provided the opportunity to spend 
time with a number of our employees. i never fail to 
be impressed by our scientists and engineers, whose 
expertise is in high demand as customers look for 
innovative ways to defeat new threats to security. qinetiq group plc annual report and accounts 2017 qinetiq group plc
annual report  
and accounts 2017
 modernise
 build 
 invest
qinetiq group plc annual report and accounts 2017 who we are
qinetiq is a leading science and engineering company 
operating primarily in the defence, security and aerospace 
markets. acquisition of meggitt target systems
acquired meggitt target systems business, which generates 90% 
of its revenue outside the uk, to support our international growth. emea services
£613.5m
fy17 annual revenue
5,301
fy17 total employees
global products
£169.6m
fy17 annual revenue
853
fy17 total employees
qinetiq north america
what we do
develop and manufacture innovative defence 
products specialising in unmanned systems, 
survivability and maritime systems, along with 
products in related commercial markets. qinetiq target systems is reported 
in emea products. these are additional key financial indicators used by management 
internally to assess the underlying performance of the group. the factors in the external market 
impacting our business, our strategy and progress against  
our kpis. “achieving our ambition of 
becoming the chosen partner 
requires a relentless focus 
on meeting the needs of our 
customers both in our home 
markets and overseas.”
mark elliott
non-executive chairman
context 
fy17 will be remembered as the year in which many 
of the world’s most newsworthy events were influenced 
by the challenges being created by globalisation and 
a marked return to national politics. steve has significant defence sector experience 
and is implementing a strategy to deliver sustainable 
growth founded on a thorough understanding of 
the dynamics in our markets and the needs of our 
customers now and in the future.