locations
acquisitions 
in fy2017
uk & ireland
ten locations
seven brands
nordics
seven locations
four brands
central europe
four locations
four brands
total locations
21 volution group plc
annual report 2017 02
strategic report
highlights
financial
 > strong revenue growth of 19.8% 
(14.5% at constant currency):
 > organic revenue growth of 7.3% 
(2.1% at constant currency); and
 > inorganic revenue growth of 12.5% 
(12.4% at constant currency). > as anticipated, adjusted operating profit margin 
declined by 1.7 percentage points, partly as a 
consequence of new acquisitions. > reported profit before tax declined by 2.5% 
to £17.9 million (2016: £18.4 million), resulting 
predominantly from the increased amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets and a movement 
in the fair value of derivative financial instruments. > adjusted operating cash flow was very strong 
at £35.9 million (2016: £31.1 million). strategic report
volution group plc
annual report 2017 01
we aim for our products to enhance our customers’ experience 
of ventilation by reducing energy consumption, improving air 
quality and design and making them easier to use. while we expect some uncertainty ahead as the 
uk negotiates the terms of brexit, we remain confident in the 
long‑ term prospects for the group based on our clear strategy 
of building our brand portfolio while diversifying in markets and 
geographies. both acquisitions were funded from the group’s existing cash 
and banking facilities. dividends
we aim to deliver shareholder value through organic and inorganic 
growth and a sustainable dividend policy. > acquisition of breathing buildings limited 
completed in december 2016. breathing buildings 
has been pioneering natural and hybrid ventilation 
systems since 2006, with which it has become 
very successful within the new build education 
sector. the acquisition has widened our capability 
with a leader in natural and hybrid ventilation for 
commercial buildings, strengthened our product 
range and broadened our channel to market. > acquisition of voltair system ab completed in 
may 2017. voltair system has a strong presence in 
the residential and commercial new build ventilation 
markets in sweden in the growing market for 
energy‑efficient air handling units. the business 
is highly complementary to our strong position 
in the nordic residential refurbishment ventilation 
products market. oem (torin-sifan) 
torin‑ sifan is a leading supplier of motors, motorised impellers, 
fans and blowers for the heating, ventilation and air conditioning 
industry worldwide. the facilities in 
reading and slough are being relocated to a newly built facility at 
suttons business park in reading, with the move to be complete 
by the middle of 2018. this new facility is state of the art and is 
aligned with our ethos of innovation and “excellence in ventilation”. breathing buildings was formed in 2006 following 
a major research programme between the 
university of cambridge and the massachusetts 
institute of technology resulting in the development 
of a proprietary e‑ stack mixing ventilation system. the technology was initially patented by the 
university of cambridge, with breathing buildings 
having exclusive rights to the intellectual property. excellence in ventilation
volution group plc annual report 2017
volution group plc annual report 2017 strategic report
02 highlights
04 at a glance
06 chairman’s statement 
09 chief executive officer’s review
12 excellence in ventilation
16 our business model
18 our strategy
20 innovation in action
22 scale in action
24 people in action
26 brands in action
28 key performance indicators
32 risk management and principal risks
38 corporate social responsibility
40 operational review
42 financial review
governance report
46 board of directors
48 introduction to governance
50 corporate governance
58 nomination committee report
60 audit committee report
67 directors’ remuneration report
85 directors’ report
88 directors’ responsibility statement
financial statements
89 independent auditor’s report 
98 consolidated statement of comprehensive income
99 consolidated statement of financial position
100 consolidated statement of changes in equity
101 consolidated statement of cash flows
102 notes to the consolidated financial statements
142 parent company statement of financial position
143 parent company statement of changes in equity
144 parent company statement of cash flows 
145 notes to the parent company financial statements  
additional information
151 glossary of technical terms
152 shareholder information
find out more online 
www.volutiongroupplc.com
excellence in ventilation
volution group plc is a 
leading supplier of ventilation 
products to the residential 
and commercial construction 
markets in the uk, the 
nordics and central europe. front cover:
the pulsar fan launched in germany 
under the inventer brand based 
on a group fan platform developed 
jointly by sweden and the uk. dear shareholder,
i am pleased to present our annual report and accounts for the 
year ended 31 july 2017, a year in which we have continued to 
make strong progress in building a more valuable volution group. more 
details can be found in the chief executive officer’s review and 
in the financial review. > adjusted operating profit increased by 9.6% to 
£35.6 million (4.2% at constant currency). > adjusted basic and diluted eps growth of 7.9% 
to 13.6 pence (2016: 12.6 pence). > reported basic and diluted eps declined by 10.3% 
to 7.0 pence (2016: 7.8 pence). > full year dividend of 4.15 pence per share, up 9.2%. for a definition of 
all the adjusted and non‑ gaap measures, please 
see the glossary of terms in note 34. a reconciliation 
to reported measures is set out in note 2. volution group plc
annual report 2017 04
strategic report
at a glance
excelling in residential 
and commercial 
markets across two 
business segments. ventilation group
the ventilation group consists of 13 key brands, focused 
primarily on the uk, swedish, norwegian, german, belgian and 
dutch ventilation markets:
in the uk:  vent‑ axia, manrose, breathing buildings, 
diffusion, national ventilation and airtech
in the nordics: fresh, pax, voltair system and welair
in central europe: ventilair, inventer, brüggemann and vent‑ axia
the ventilation group has sector‑ leading positions in the uk, 
sweden, germany and belgium. innovation
our strategy
> page 18
our strategy
our strategy continues to focus on three key pillars:
organic growth in our core markets
growth through a disciplined and 
value‑ adding acquisition strategy
further develop torin‑ sifan’s 
range and build customer 
preference and loyalty
our recent history
volution was formed in december 2002 through 
the buy‑ out from smiths group plc of its air 
movement and cable management divisions. > nva services limited (trading as national 
ventilation and airtech) acquired
 > breathing buildings limited acquired
 > voltair system ab acquired
 > brüggemann energiekonzepte 
gmbh acquired 
 > ventilair group international bvba acquired
 > weland luftbehandling ab  
(renamed welair ab) acquired
 > energy t echnique plc  
(trading as diffusion) acquired 
2015
 > towerbrook acquires volution holdings
 > fresh ab acquired
2012
2016
2017
 > pax ab acquired 2013
 > assets and business of öko‑ haustechnik 
inventer gmbh acquired
 > volution group plc is formed and 
listed on the london stock exchange
 > torin‑ sifan opens new manufacturing and 
technology centre in swindon, uk
2014
 > ronnie george joins volution holdings 
as managing director
2008
 > aac capital and management team 
acquires volution holdings
2006
 > cable management division sold
 > manrose manufacturing acquired
2007
fy2017
find out more online
> www.volutiongroupplc.com volution group plc
annual report 2017 06
strategic report
chairman’s statement  
peter hill, cbe
strong results created through 
excellence in ventilation. our acquisition strategy over the last year has increased 
the number of our key brands from twelve to fourteen. strategic
 > two acquisitions completed during the year, 
strengthening our position in existing geographies, 
with all integration activity for recent acquisitions 
progressing well. recent acquisitions integrating well, 
supplementing continued organic growth. this was despite the vote for the uk to leave the european union 
and the resulting devaluation of sterling against both the us dollar 
and the euro. what does it mean for customers? what does this mean for customers? during the year the group made further progress with its strategy 
of making selective value‑ adding and strategically important 
acquisitions in our ventilation segment, acquiring breathing 
buildings in the uk and voltair system in sweden. as a board, we evaluate each acquisition 
opportunity very carefully to ensure that it meets our strategic 
objectives as well as the financial hurdles set for investment. we very much welcome the employees 
of all these companies to the volution group. with our 
proven track record of performing well in challenging trading 
environments and our strong balance sheet, we are confident 
about delivering on our strategy over time.