there is growth potential in our core business, in adjacent markets and in new
sectors and geographies. we are investing in parts of our business 
with high growth potential such as risk management systems and enterprise
information products, and we are expanding our business in emerging markets
such as china and india. 4 the group has restated its 2003 and 2002 us gaap financial information to give effect to differences between uk and us gaap concerning foreign exchange gains on cross currency interest rate swaps
and the capitalisation of certain costs related to internal use software. at reuters we specialise in providing indispensable information tailored for
professionals in the financial services, media and corporate markets. tellitstraight
reuters annual report and form 20-f 2004
reuters group plc annual report and form 20-f 2004
for more information
www.about.reuters.com contents
01 financial highlights
02 chairman’s statement
03 chief executive’s review
04 five and three year summaries
05 selected financial highlights
06 company information
11 operating and financial review
26 directors’ report
27 directors and senior managers
29 corporate governance
32 remuneration report
41 statement of directors’ responsibilities
42 united kingdom opinion/united states opinion
43 consolidated profit and loss account
consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
44 notes on the consolidated profit and loss account
50 consolidated cash flow statement
51 notes on the consolidated cash flow statement
56 consolidated balance sheet
57 reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
notes on the consolidated balance sheet
71 balance sheet of reuters group plc 
notes on the balance sheet of reuters group plc
72 accounting policies
74 summary of differences between uk and us 
generally accepted accounting principles (gaap)
77 notes on summary of differences between uk and us 
generally accepted accounting principles (gaap)
81 information for shareholders
93 eleven year consolidated financial summary
94 cross-reference guide to form 20-f
95 glossary
96 financial diary for 2005 
where to find us financial highlights
reuters group plc annual report and form 20-f 2004 01
restated
3
2004 2003 %
reuters group £m £m change
revenue 2,885 3,235 (11%)
operating profit 197 130 51%
profit before tax 437 56 –
profit after tax 364 34 –
return on equity (%) 112.5% 15.7% –
net funds/(debt) 326 (77) –
basic earnings per ordinary share 25.1p 3.6p –
diluted earnings per share 24.5p 3.5p –
earnings per ads
1,2
288.9c 41.3c –
dividends per ordinary share 10.0p 10.0p –
dividends per ads
1
(see page 82) 60.0p 60.0p –
notes:
1 each american depositary share (ads) represents six ordinary shares. 2 a nominal exchange rate of us$1.92 = £1 has been used for convenience. the consolidated financial statements of reuters group included in this report are presented in pounds sterling (£). on 31 december 2004, the noon buying 
rate in new york city for cable transfers in foreign currencies as announced for customs purposes by the federal reserve bank of new york (noon buying rate)
was us$1.92 = £1; on 4 march 2005 the noon buying rate was us$1.92 = £1. i am 
grateful for the warm and open welcome i have received from tom glocer and
his team and my board colleagues. the principles which govern the
company are special. the people who work here are a unique blend. but a resolute team has fought back, focused again 
on the core and rebuilt confidence and strength. other trade marks of third parties are used in this report for the purpose of identification only. i hope to justify their confidence. and yet
the business stumbled. the benefits of fast forward
are clear and will grow. for a discussion of risks associated with these
statements see ‘risk factors’ on pages 23-25.
reuters, the sphere logo and reuters product names referred to in the report are trade marks or registered trade marks of the reuters group of companies
around the world. reuters is one of the world’s great brands. where are the multiple
skills and special values of reuters people best deployed? unfortunately, our journalists and photographers are all too often exposed to
danger as they report world events. we are launching innovative trading systems to grow usage revenues
alongside subscription revenues. our pending acquisition of moneyline telerate (telerate) would strengthen 
our fixed income content and end user community. we are uniquely placed 
to achieve cost synergies from the acquisition because telerate’s information
distribution infrastructure already operates on our systems. • enterprise targets the complete business enterprise, as distinct from the 
end-user. this report comprises the annual report of reuters group plc in accordance with the united kingdom requirements and its annual report on form 20-f in
accordance with the requirements of the united states securities and exchange commission (sec) for 2004. a cross-reference guide setting out the information
in this report that corresponds to the form 20-f items is provided on pages 94-95.
as used in this report, ‘reuters group’ and ‘group’ refer to reuters group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, including instinet group incorporated (instinet
group), joint ventures and associates. the ‘company’ refers to the parent reuters group plc. ‘reuters’ refers to reuters group excluding instinet group. for additional information on exchange rates between the pound sterling and 
the us dollar, see exchange rates on page 85.
reuters group’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united kingdom (uk gaap). how do we grow
the company to fill the space occupied by the brand? when can this
deliver value to our shareholders and worth to society? we have strengthened our product line, we are meeting 
our cost savings targets and we have done much to simplify the company and
reduce our portfolio. towards this end, we reorganised our
development and operations groups at the beginning of 2005 to integrate
our software developers directly into the customer segment business teams
and focus on customer service. 3 restated following the adoption of urgent issues task force (subsequently referred to as uitf) 17 and uitf38 and the reclassification of transaction-related regulatory fees following recently issued
sec guidance (see ‘accounting basis’ on page 72). uk gaap differs in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the united states (us gaap). the material differences between uk gaap
and us gaap relevant to reuters group are explained on pages 74-80.
this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the united states private securities litigation reform act of 1995 with respect to reuters
group’s financial condition, results of operations, business and management strategy and plans and objectives. it is a privilege to follow in the footsteps of sir christopher hogg. what
does it stand for today and to what can it realistically aspire? … and the low point? q you say reuters is being transformed – from what to what? q what is being done to improve reuters products?