04
what is regenerative medicine? what about  
health economics? this clinical data has also been used to 
validate the potential for a pre-clinical trial 
in the us. as reported previously, we have 
been in discussions with the fda and it 
is expected that this pre-clinical work will 
commence during 2018 with the support of 
our orthopaedic clinical advisory board. the clinical 
data generated by dr francisco da costa, 
our clinician partner in brazil, continues  
to demonstrate the clinical relevance  
and advantages of these transplants even  
after more than 10 years of follow-up. { leverage real world clinical outcomes data, our respected key 
opinion leaders, and compelling health economic rationale across 
our chosen surgical specialties. our strengths 
 { two complementary, proven regenerative medicine platforms 
addressing applications in both soft tissue and bone 
 { state-of-the-art in-house manufacturing capabilities in the uk, europe 
and north america 
 { multiple development and commercialisation opportunities 
 { experienced and dedicated management and scientific teams. z completed acquisition of cellright 
technologies in august 2017 
 — successfully raised £40m gross of costs through an  
equity fundraising 
 — provides complementary regenerative technology 
platform and world-class facility
 — operational integration on track, with initial  
synergies recognised. z post period highlights 
 — strategic distribution agreements with arms medical  
for dermapure
®
 — long-term distribution agreement signed with arthrex, inc. 
for cellrights biorinse portfolio. the acquisition of cellright technologies is a transformative 
opportunity for the group, combining two innovative, regenerative 
platforms with large addressable markets and synergistic growth 
opportunities. cellright delivered on their revenue 
expectations during 2017 and we continue 
to see increasing commercial traction and 
momentum. { delay in it systems/
financial reporting. gross margins are stated after 
deducting cost of external commissions 
(previously expensed as administration 
expenses) in order to provide a clearer view 
of costs directly associated with generating 
revenue. trading results
administrative expenses increased by 
£1,649k from £11,773k to £13,422k. dcell
®
 tissue strategy learn more about us overview
highlights  01
chairman’s statement  02
corporate structure 03
who are cellright technologies? designed by cellright ceo jesus hernandez in 
2012, the state-of-the-art facility is now home  
to both cellright technologies and  
trx biosurgery (previously tissue regenix  
wound care incorporated). expanded market opportunities 
estimated that 60%  
of the global orthopaedic 
market is derived 
from sales in the us
†
new entry into:
$1.7bn
†
north america bone  
graft and substitutes  
market in 2016
expands commercial  
presence in the us
cross-selling and  
distribution synergies in the 
orthopaedic market
boosts position in:
$2bn
*
north america orthopaedic 
soft tissue market in 2015
*
$3.7bn
market 
opportunity
$
a tissue regenix group company
a tissue regenix group company
*   www.grandviewresearch.com/press-release/global-orthopedic-soft-tissue-repair-market
**  www .beckersspine.com/orthopedic-a-spine-device-a-implant-news/item/35889-medtr onic-
depuy-synthes-stryker-lead-north-american-bone-grafts-substitutes-market-7-observations.html
†
  orthoworld annual report 2016
ticker aim: trx 
www.tissueregenix.com
04
who are cellright technologies? a tissue regenix group company
2 innovative  
technology 
platforms
4 key clinical 
focus areas:
trx biosurgery* orthopaedics** dental
†
cardiac
††
valued at 
$1.29bn
valued at
$1.7bn
spine accounts  
for 18% of the market, 
orthobiologics 10%
market 
opportunity 
in soft tissue and bone
 offering a  
$400m
potential to be game 
changing technology in 
$3.1m
heart valve 
market
us wound biologics 
market 2018 forecast
* us wound biologics market biomedgps, llc. caring
progressive
dynamic
tissue regenix group plc 
annual report and accounts  
for the year ended 31 december 2017
tissue regenix group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 december 2017 tissue regenix group is a 
pioneering, international medical 
technology company, focusing on 
the development of regenerative 
products utilising our two 
platform technologies, dcell
®
 
technology, addressing soft 
tissue needs, and cellright’s 
biorinse
®
, providing inductive 
bone allografts. 05
complementary platform technologies  06
strategic report
ceo operational review  07
our strategy 10
divisional overview
 trx biosurgery  12
 orthopaedics and dental  14
 cellright technologies 15
 cardiac 16
 gbm-v 17
financial overview 18
risks  19
corporate social responsibility  21
 
governance
 
profile of the current directors 22
governance framework 24
directors’ remuneration report 26
directors’ report 30
statement of directors’ responsibilities 31
financials
independent auditor’s report to the  
members of tissue regenix group plc 32
consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income  36
consolidated statement of changes in equity 37
consolidated statement of financial position 38
consolidated statement of cash flows 39
notes to the financial statements 40
company statement of changes in equity 60
company statement of financial position 61
company statement of cash flows 62
notes to the company information 63
notice of annual general meeting 65
directors and officers ibc
highlights 
 z group sales increased to £5,233k 
 — dermapure
®
 sales under trx biosurgery increased  
by 46% to £1,932k
 — increased sales from gbm-v to £1,135k 
 — four months of cellright contribution of £2,166k. z group loss for the year of £9.4m
 — improvement from £9.9m (11 months to december 2016)
 — investment into research and development continues. “ i am very pleased with the 
progress the group has 
made, delivering against 
our strategic objectives 
for the year...
for more information see page 02
overview
tissue regenix group plc 
annual report and accounts  
for the year ended 31 december 2017
01 our business 
the group has performed well against our strategic milestones for 
the year. with the appointment of steve couldwell as ceo, 
the board is confident that it has the leadership in place to take 
the company to the next stage and a comprehensive review of the 
development pipeline is ongoing. with our augmented, established 
product portfolio generating a growing level of sales, we have 
identified key development assets to focus our commercial resources 
behind, and we are confident that following final product validation 
and transfer of manufacturing in-house, the newly focused strategy 
will drive significant shareholder returns. we would like to thank antony for his leadership during the group’s 
early years. steve has experience spanning over 25 years in the medical 
device space and a proven track record of delivering revenue and 
profit growth. the facility has submitted an approval application for a human tissue 
authority licence allowing it to function as the european base for the import 
and distribution of cellright’s osteobiologics portfolio. gbm-v and cellright are also working 
closely to facilitate the technology transfer of 
biorinse
®
 and dcell
®
 in the respective facilities to 
accommodate global processing opportunities. integration highlights
 { growth momentum of cellright  
portfolio maintained
 { dermapure
®
 manufacturing transfer  
on track
 { financial control & governance 
framework implemented
 { one company customer service and 
back office established
 { initial cross-selling opportunities  
being realised. having identified an opportunity in this 
market, we have signed an exclusive 
distributor agreement with arms medical, a 
specialist urogynaecology distributor in the 
united states to maximise this opportunity, 
leveraging their strong relationships with 
kols and surgeons. we are helping 
to transform the treatment 
of patients in four key areas: 
biosurgery, orthopaedics (sports 
medicine/spine), dental and cardiac
in pipeline porcine (x)
human (h)
biosurgery cardiac orthopaedic
[thicker dermis]
navigating the report 
for further information within this  
document and relevant page numbers
scan the qr code to  
learn more about our dcell 
technology in this short video
or visit www.tissueregenix.com/
media/innovations-in-soft-tissue-
regenerative-medical-technology
scan the qr code to learn more  
about cellright technologies in  
this short video
or visit www.tissueregenix.com/ 
media/healing-skeletal-defects-
through-regenerative-medicine
ticker aim: trx 
www.tissueregenix.com
who we are
our vision
to establish tissue regenix as a leader in the science and innovation of 
regenerative medicine and become clinicians’ partner of choice to meet 
growing clinical needs, transform patient care and deliver favourable health 
economic outcomes. responsible 
for human tissue production within europe, gbm-v 
is preparing for the introduction of the processing of 
allograft valves, cardiopure™, decellularized aortic 
and pulmonary allograft valves for the european 
market. cellright technologies is a newly acquired subsidiary of tissue 
regenix – a high-growth, profitable regenerative medical devices 
business with proprietary regenerative medicine technology, 
biorinse, that transforms human bone into a mouldable matrix 
to stimulate bone growth, with distinctive characteristics when 
compared to competitor products, maintaining bone morphogenic 
proteins and growth factors verified to be osteoinductive. with the demand for less invasive, longer 
lasting treatment modalities, regenerative 
medicine is an increasingly important 
approach as it removes the need for 
synthetic (plastic or metal) replacements, and 
reduces the risk of rejection, while offering the 
potential for less time-consuming and more 
cost-effective treatments. 1
 trg estimate. tissue regenix group plc 
annual report and accounts  
for the year ended 31 december 2017
11
strategic report
for more information on  
our risks see page 19 financial performance 
trx biosurgery reported revenues of 
£1,932k for the 12-month period (11 month 
period to december 2016: £1,322k), an 
increase of 46%. external commissions paid in the 
year were £588k (11 months to december 
2016: £376k). ticker aim: trx 
www.tissueregenix.com
14 financial overview 
in the period since acquisition, cellright  
has contributed £2.2m to group revenues 
and £277k profit to the overall group 
operating loss.