this	 is	 now	 standard	
practice	 for	 the	 international	 civil	 aviation	 organization	
(icao)	 and	 the	 european	 aviation	 safety	 agency	 (easa). defence
in	 the	 defence	 market,	 bodies	 such	 as	 the	 european	
defence	 agency	 (eda)	 have	 committed	 to	 the	 principles	 of	
harmonisation	 of	 airworthiness	 requirements. operator	 compliance	 with	
relevant	 regulations. the	
group	 remains	 committed	 to	 expanding	 the	 range	
of	 services	 we	 offer	 to	 our	 customers	 as	 we	 aim	
to	 fulfil	 our	 long-term	 aims. alongside	 this,	 we	 are	
reconfiguring	 and	 reinvigorating	 our	 brand	 as	
well	 as	 investing	 in	 our	 infrastructure	 to	 facilitate	
this	 change. economic	 uncertainty	 may	
pose	 challenges	 to	 our	 standard	 broking	 business,	 but	 we	
can	 balance	 that	 by	 meeting	 out-of-the-ordinary	 commercial	
requirements,	 helping	 support	 disaster	 relief	 and,	 of	 course,	
offering	 the	 safety	 management	 services	 without	 which	
aeroplanes	 could	 not	 fly. our	 plc	 status	 is	 a	 key	
strength:	 it	 offers	 customers,	 employees	 and	 shareholders	 –	
indeed,	 all	 our	 stakeholders	 –	 reassurance	 that	 we	 operate	
to	 the	 highest	 standards	 of	 governance	 and	 ethics,	 and	 are	
transparent	 in	 all	 our	 finances	 and	 business	 dealings. this	 creates	 value	 both	 for	 our	 shareholders	
and	 our	 stakeholders	 and	 gives	 purpose	 and	
distinctiveness	 to	 our	 brand. moving	 into	 2017	 and	 beyond,	 we	 are	 creating	 the	
platforms	 and	 the	 infrastructure	 that	 are	 leading	
the	 group	 steadily	 towards	 greater	 visibility,	
higher	 earnings	 capacity	 and	 the	 ability	 to	 create	
long-term	 value. we	 formed	 a	 long-term	 strategy	 that	 places	 the	 customer	
first	 and	 has	 the	 power	 to	 transform	 our	 business	 model,	
reducing	 volatility	 and	 improving	 the	 overall	 quality	 of	 our	
earnings. a steadily growing global aviation market
in	 the	 short	 term,	 the	 global	 aviation	 market	 can	 be	 adversely	
affected	 by	 geo-political	 issues	 or	 ‘acts	 of	 god’,	 but	 the	
longer-term	 trend	 is	 positive. transforming  
the skies
annual report and accounts 2017 performance highlights
acquisitions support  
long-term growth plans
•	 	 underlying	 profit	 before	 tax	 of	 £5.1m,	 an	 increase	 of	 17.2%
•	 commercial 	 jets	 performed	 strongly	 in	 europe	 and	 us
•	 record 	 jetcard	 performance	 with	 utilisation	 up	 41%
•	 	 consulting	 &	 training	 division	 delivered	 10%	 of	 group	
underlying	 profit	 before	 tax
•	 clear 	 long-term	 strategy	 in	 place
gross transaction value
 2.4%
2017: £215.8m
2016: £210.8m
gross profit
 16.3%
2017: £31.7m
2016: £27 .3m
underlying profit before tax
 17.2%
2017: £5.1m
2016: £4.3m
statutory profit before tax
 38.6%
2017: £4.3m
2016: £3.1m
underlying basic eps
 10.2%
2017: 6.5p
2016: 5.9p
basic eps
 45.9%
2017: 5.4p
2016: 3.7p
final dividend
 6.0%
2017: 3.6p
2016: 3.4p
total dividend
 7.2%
2017: 5.2p
2016: 4.9p
contents
strategic report
01	 overview 
04 chairman’s	 statement
05 explaining our business
06 group	 at	 a	 glance
08 market	 overview
10 business	 model	 and	 strategy
 12 people
 14 technology
	 15 expanding	 our	 services
18 principal	 risks	 and	 uncertainties
23	 2017 performance
24 chief	 executive’s	 review
28 financial	 review
30 key	 performance	 indicators
32 divisional	 reviews
	 32	 commercial 	 jets
	 34	 private 	 jets
	 36	 freight
	 38	 consulting 	 &	 training
corporate governance
42 board	 of	 directors	 and	 senior	 management
44 chairman’s	 introduction	 to	 governance
45 corporate	 governance	 report
50 nomination	 committee	 report
51 audit	 and	 risk	 committee	 report
54 directors’	 remuneration	 report
66 directors’	 report
69	 directors’ 	 responsibility	 statement
financial statements
72 independent	 auditor’s	 report
80 financial	 statements
86 notes	 to	 the	 financial	 statements strategic report corporate governance financial statements
1 air partner plc  |  annual report and accounts 2017
we	 have	 expanded	 beyond	 our	 core	 business	
of	 brokering	 chartered	 flights	 for	 private	 and	
commercial	 jets	 and	 freight. i	 am	 pleased	 to	 report	 a	 strong	 performance	 for	 the	 year	
ended	 31	 january	 2017.	 gross	 profit	 rose	 by	 16.3%	 to	 £31.7m,	
underlying	 profit	 before	 tax	 increased	 by	 17.2%	 to	 £5.1m	
and	 reported	 profit	 before	 tax	 by	 38.6%	 to	 £4.3m. maintaining a progressive dividend
we	 are	 proposing	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 3.6p,	 taking	 the	 full	
year	 dividend	 to	 5.2p,	 an	 increase	 of	 7.2%	 and	 equivalent	 to	
1.3	 times	 dividend	 cover. our	 policy	 is	 to	 target	 cover	 between	
1.5	 and	 2.0	 times	 underlying	 earnings	 per	 share. percentages	 represent	 that	 company’s	
or	 product’s	 proportion	 of	 the	 division’s	
overall	 gross	 proft. by	 moving	 to	 a	 pbr	 approach,	 regulators	 are	 aiming	 to	 embed	
a	 risk-based	 approach	 to	 safety,	 whether	 this	 be	 sms	 or	
fatigue	 risk	 management. projects	
range	 from	 one-off	 charters	 to	 much	 longer	 or	 more	
complicated	 projects	 spanning	 many	 months	 or	
multiple	 rotations. profit	 is	 largely	
generated	 through	 commissions	 attached	 to	 mandates	 as	 well	 as	 through	 retainers. overview 2 air partner plc  |		 annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2017
overview
transforming the skies
seldom,	 since	 our	 foundation	 in	 1961,	 has	 there	 been	 a	 year	
with	 more	 political	 upheaval	 and	 ensuing	 economic	 uncertainty	
than	 2016.	 but	 the	 skies	 are	 increasingly	 busy,	 and	 our	 balance	
of	 services	 means	 we	 have	 much	 to	 offer. “ we’vehadagreatyear–
beingpartofaplcgives
usgreatercredibility.”

tony whitty, managing director,  
air partner remarketing (formerly cabot aviation)
“ 2016hasbeenayearofdeliveringa
profitablefirstfullyearwiththegroup.”

justin scarborough, interim managing director,  
baines simmons
“ mostofourpeople’sraison
d’êtreistosavelives.”

bob simmons, founder, baines simmons
“ we’redevelopingnewwaysof
deliveringexcellentexperiencefor
ourcustomers–andrepositioning
ourbrandtohighlightourstrengths.”

julia timms, group marketing director
“ we’resucceedingin
maintainingourunique
culture–alwaysachallenge
whenyou’reintegratingnew
businesses,butessentialfor
ourlong-termsuccess.”

rachel thripp, group head of human resources 
“ wehavereallystrengthenedtheit
infrastructureofairpartnerthisyear.”

lee pyle, group head of technology strategic report corporate governance financial statements
3 air partner plc  |  annual report and accounts 2017 3 air partner plc  |		 annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2017
“ it’sbeenagoodyear,and
thestrengthofthefinancial
contributionfromournewly
acquiredbusinessesisproving
ourstrategy.”

mark briffa, chief executive officer
“ ahighlightof2016,wasflying
thehillaryclintoncampaignand
buildingourpresenceintheus.”

richard smith, head of product, air partner broking
“ ourbrokingbusiness
hasdonereallywellin
achallengingmarket
andagainstachallenging
politicalbackdrop.”

neil morris, chief financial officer  
 
4 air partner plc  |  annual report and accounts 2017
overview
chairman’s statement
the	 group	 has	 a	 clear	 long-term	 strategy	 to	 become	 a	 world-class	 global	
aviation	 services	 group. i	 am	 delighted	 that,	 following	 a	 formal	 selection	 process,	
peter	 saunders,	 our	 current	 senior	 independent	 director,	 will	
replace	 me	 as	 chairman	 effective	 from	 that	 date,	 subject	 to	 his	
re-election	 at	 the	 agm. clockwork	 research	
was	 acquired	 just	 before	 the	 year	 end,	
so	 its	 contribution	 was	 negligible. at	 the	 heart	 of	 this	 are	 people:	 our	 customers	
and	 our	 staff. we	 continue	 to	 attract	 and	 retain	
the	 best	 people	 –	 those	 capable	 of,	 and	 dedicated	
to,	 providing	 our	 customers	 with	 the	 highest	 levels	
of	 knowledge,	 expertise	 and	 customer	 service. air	 partner	 is	 on	 a	 journey:	 	
an	 exciting	 journey	 of	
transformation	 to	 become	 a	
world-class	 aviation	 services	
group. something	 to	 be	
reckoned	 with	 in	 the	 world	 	
of	 aviation. also	 includes	 air	 partner	
remarketing	 and	 short-term	 aircraft	
leasing	 services. bespoke	
service	 and	 prepaid	 jetcard	 product	 for	
access	 to	 private	 jets. freight 4%
cargo	 transport	 aircraft	 charter	 and	
part-charter	 from	 learjets	 to	 the	 giant	
antonov	 225	 for	 regular	 and	 bespoke	
requirements,	 eg	 emergency	 aid	 drops,	
time-critical	 door-to-door	 freight	
delivery	 and	 on-board	 couriers. the market for broking
at	 air	 partner,	 broking	 encompasses	 commercial	 jets,	
private	 jets,	 freight,	 emergency	 planning	 (our	 bespoke	
disaster	 response	 service)	 and	 aircraft	 remarketing. 2016	 certainly	 qualifies	 for	 the	 description	 ‘interesting	 times’. the	 challenges	 we	 have	 all	 faced	 this	 year	 are	 sufficiently	 well	
known	 not	 to	 have	 to	 itemise	 them	 here. yet	 the	 group	 has	
steadfastly	 progressed	 in	 such	 ‘interesting	 times’	 and	 is	 set	
to	 continue	 to	 do	 so. as	 i	 have	 mentioned	 in	 prior	 reports,	 in	 2014	 we	 took	
a	 thoughtful	 and	 critical	 look	 at	 our	 industry	 to	 evaluate	
not	 only	 our	 own	 market	 position,	 but	 the	 challenges	 and	
opportunities	 that	 lie	 ahead. we	 have	 incorporated	
aircraft	 remarketing	 and	 safety	 consultancy	 and	
training	 through	 our	 acquisitions	 of	 cabot	 aviation	
and	 baines	 simmons,	 and	 have	 recently	 added	 the	
dynamic	 skills	 of	 clockwork	 research	 with	 its	
innovative	 approach	 to	 fatigue	 management. richard everitt 
chairman	 strategic report corporate governance financial statements
5 air partner plc  |		 annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2017
explaining
our  
business 6 air partner plc  |		 annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2017
explaining our business
group at a glance
air	 partner	 is	 a	 global	 aviation	 charter	 specialist	 and	 an	 expert	
in	 safety	 consulting	 and	 training. for	 our	 consulting	 &	 training	 business,	 clients	 include	 airlines,	
defence	 organisations	 and	 aviation	 authorities	 globally. consulting & training
baines simmons 100%
world-leading	 aviation	 safety	 consulting	
and	 training	 services	 in	 regulation,	
compliance	 and	 safety	 management	 for	
civil	 and	 defence	 aviation	 organisations.