• raised £7.9m (net) through a placing and open offer to invest in our products and technology 
delivery capabilities. the company 
operates globally via subsidiaries who both develop and deliver its products, as well as a 
range of services. counting 30 of the world’s ‘top 50’ financial institutions among its clients, lombard risk has been a trusted partner for 28 years. • the group raised £7.9m net 
during the year via a placing and 
open offer to support its strategy. • adjusted ebitda increased to £2.6m (2016: £2.1m). • loss before tax of £1.6m (2016: £2.2m). • cash and cash equivalents at 31 march 2017 of £7.0m (31 march 2016: £3.3m). • capitalised r&d of £7.5m (2016: £5.9m). revenue (£m)
+44.8%
£34.3m
 34.3
 23.7
 21.5
 20.4
 16.8
record order book (£m)
+35.0%
£10.1m
 10.1
 7.5
 5.9
 5.2
 4.4
• revenue increased by 44.8% to £34.3m (2016: £23.7m). • recurring revenue grew 21.0% to £12.4m (2016: £10.2m), representing c. 36.0% of revenue (2016: 43.1%). at a glance
2 lombard risk management plc annual report and accounts 2017 chairman’s statement
summary
• the group achieved revenue 
growth of 44.8%, giving a 
five-year compound annual 
growth rate of 21.9%. results
the group achieved revenue growth 
of 44.8%, giving a five-year compound 
annual growth rate of 21.9%. • launched agilecollateral
®
 to deliver the power of colline
®
 as flexible cloud-based solution. with lombard risk, clients achieve the agility they need to gain a critical advantage through intelligent 
automation of regulatory reporting and optimisation of cross-product collateral management. • we have announced the launch 
of agilecollateral
®
 our flexible 
cloud-based product harnessing 
the power of colline
®
. • we continue to develop 
agilereporter
®
 and have 
deployed live instances both 
direct to clients and through our 
strategic partner oracle. delivering advantage. • the board remains confident 
in our plans and our ability to 
continue to execute them. the board is very pleased with the progress 
made in delivering the group’s two-year plan. dividend
the group suspended its progressive 
dividend policy in the year ended 
31 march 2016 and it remains the view 
of the board that the group’s resources 
are best directed towards the exploitation 
of the considerable opportunities that 
continue to present themselves in both 
the regulatory reporting and collateral 
management software markets. 2017 highlights
adjusted net cash / debt (£m)
+109.7%
£7.0m
 7.0
 3.3
 2.2
 2.3
0.2
visit www.lombardrisk.com and follow us on 
linkedin and twitter @lombardriskm
risk and regulatory disclaimer: for regulatory reasons the board does not make external revenue or profit forecasts (although in common with most other quoted companies it 
does work with analysts who create market guidance) and while the board clearly does plan to achieve optimum revenue and earnings growth through defining and implementing 
an appropriate strategy, nothing in this annual report and accounts should be construed as the board making revenue or profit forecasts, nor as any undertaking by the board that 
its strategy and plans are in fact optimal in a future market, regulatory or competitive environment or that they will develop as projected. our solutions permit clients to reduce 
the cost and complexity of managing risk while maximising accuracy, speed and value. the board 
does not therefore recommend the 
payment of a dividend. financial performance
in terms of financial performance, the 44.8% 
increase in top-line revenue to £34.3m 
validates the board’s belief that a step 
change was possible. providing agility. lombard risk’s global presence is also enhanced by a carefully selected 
group of alliance partners extending its product features, increasing market reach and 
providing execution capacity. first, we continue to invest in 
the evolution of agilereporter
®
, which 
will provide clients with a global platform 
from which to service their regulatory 
reporting requirements across multiple 
jurisdictions. in addition, 
our alliance partnerships with a number 
of key partners provides us with both 
increased bandwidth and a breadth 
of support in our sales, implementation 
and support activities. the regulatory release of colline
®
 in may 
supported clients who needed to comply 
with dodd frank and iosco guidelines 
for trading uncleared derivatives, and we 
were delighted by both the response and 
take-up across our existing customer base. as similar regulations are adopted in 
asia, and the dodd frank and iosco 
framework extends to new waves of 
market participants, lombard risk is 
well placed to continue this success. with another major release in january, the 
addition of exchange-traded derivatives to 
colline
®
 once again underlines the value 
derived from creating a truly cross-product 
collateral solution, designed to work across 
asset classes from the ground up. however, our collateral expertise is 
equally relevant across the market, to 
participants of all sizes, and building on 
our success of hosting colline
®
 in the 
cloud for some clients, we launched 
agilecollateral
®
 in november. • opened state-of-the-art technology development centre in birmingham. worldwide presence
lombard risk is headquartered in london, with more than 380 employees. offices
representation
atlanta
singapore
sydney
cape town
new york
london (hq)
birmingham
hong kong
shanghai
tokyo
28+
years of experience in the industry
340+
worldwide clients
6
office locations globally
frankfurt
lombard risk enables clients in the financial services industry to significantly improve their approach to managing risk and meeting 
regulatory reporting obligations. • the group invested in its 
products and launched a 
new technology development 
centre in birmingham. lombard risk management plc
annual report and accounts 2017
building on 
our strengths overview
1 2017 highlights
2 at a glance
chairman’s statement
3 chairman’s statement
strategic report
5 chief executive officer’s statement
10 business model
12 key performance indicators
14 business review
16 financial review
18 principal risks and uncertainties
governance
20 corporate governance report
24 board of directors
26 report of the remuneration committee
28 report of the audit committee
29 directors’ report
financial statements
31 independent auditor’s report
32 consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income 
33 consolidated balance sheet
34 consolidated statement of changes 
in shareholders’ equity
35 consolidated cash flow statement
36 notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
56 independent auditor’s report
57 company balance sheet
58 company statement of changes in equity
59 notes to the company 
financial statements
64 company information
lombard risk’s intelligent automation 
of regulatory reporting and optimisation of 
cross-product collateral management keeps its 
clients ahead of the regulators and gives them the 
agility they need to gain competitive advantage. lombard risk management plc is a global 
technology firm with a special focus on collateral 
management and regulatory reporting. • announced strategic alliance with atos. • secured £4m revolving loan facility agreement with barclays bank.