dear shareholder
i am pleased to report that 2016/17 has seen us make further 
progress on our journey to refocus the company on the 
highly attractive opportunities which the genedrive® 
diagnostics platform offers in the rapidly growing market for 
decentralised, near patient diagnostic tests. key achievements
a major focus for the year was the development of our 
genedrive® hcv id kit. we are also delighted to have entered into a distribution 
agreement with sysmex europe to target the commercial 
hcv opportunity in africa. the agreement covers the emea 
region with an initial focus on multiple countries in africa. with minimal hands on time and 
single button operation, it provides diagnostic results, without 
the need for specialist knowledge or data interpretation. results available in as  
little as 50 minutes. page title at start: content section at start:
our focus financial statements governance strategic report 
 genedrive plc annual report 2017
 3
low 
cost
portable
decentralised testing 
supported by mains power
or ups battery pack. depending on assay, results are available 
in as little as 50 minutes. the financing costs are all 
non-cash following an election under the signed amendment 
to defer interest payable into the principal. the board requests such authority at each annual general meeting. all other members of 
the board will offer themselves for re-election. independent auditors
the auditors, pricewaterhousecoopers llp, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be 
re-appointed will be proposed at the 2017 annual general meeting. an internal control (ipc) is included for each assay. this year-over-year growth in revenue 
was driven by the diagnostics division that saw revenue 
growth of 36.8% to £2.6m (2016: £1.9m). our pathogen 
detection programme with the dod was central to this 
growth with revenue of £2.2m, up £0.5m from 2016. services 
revenue was £3.2m (2016: £3.1m), up 3.2%. we closed the 
year with £5.1m of cash (2016: £1.1m). genedrive plc annual report 2017 genedrive plc 
annual report
decentralising  
molecular diagnostics
17
genedrive plc annual report 2017
page title at start: content section at start: genedrive plc annual report 2017
genedrive plc is focused 
on decentralising 
molecular diagnostics, 
concentrating on 
applications where our 
technology will provide 
sustainable growth. strategic report
highlights 1
our focus 2
chairman’s statement 4
chief executive’s review 6
market opportunity 8
financial review 12
key performance indicators 13
principal risks and uncertainties 15
governance
board of directors 16
directors’ report 18
directors’ remuneration report 21
corporate governance report 25
financial statements
independent auditor’s report (group) 27
consolidated statement of profit or loss  
and comprehensive income 32
consolidated balance sheet 33
consolidated statement of changes in equity 34
consolidated cash flow statement 35
notes to the financial statements 36
independent auditors’ report (company) 61
company balance sheet 65
company statement of changes in equity 66
company statement of cash flows 67
notes to the company financial statements 68
directors, secretary and advisers 71
what we do
introduction and highlights
page title at start: content section at start: financial statements governance strategic report 
 genedrive plc annual report 2017
 1
operational highlights
 ● proprietary genedrive® hepatitis c (hcv) test 
submitted for ce marking 
 ● continued positive progress with the us dod 
biohazard identifier programme, including 
extension of programme into next phase
 ● successful field trials of genedrive® aquaculture 
testing programme, performed in collaboration 
with the centre for environment, fisheries and 
aquaculture science (cefas)
 ● disappointing uptake of mtb/rif assay in india, in 
part owing to sample preparation problems 
specific to mtb and commercial issues
 ● name change from epistem holdings plc to 
genedrive plc and £6m raised from july 2016 
placing - strategic focus on  molecular diagnostics 
business opportunities
financial highlights
post year end
 ● ce marking obtained for genedrive® hcv id kit
 ● entered into a distribution agreement with sysmex 
europe for genedrive® hcv id kit in the emea 
region with an initial focus on africa
 ● entered into the next stage of the us dod 
biohazard programme, worth approximately $1.4m 
in development income and a further $0.5m in 
product sales all expected to be recognised in the 
current financial year
 ● £0.6m conditional grant offer from innovate uk to 
fund centrifuge free plasma separation device
£5.8m
+13.7%
revenue and  
other income
(2016: £5.1m)
£3.2m
+3.2%
service income 
(2016: £3.1m)  
 ● turnover of £5.8m, up 13.7% (2016: £5.1m)
 ● strong growth in genedrive® development income 
to £2.6m (2016: £2.0m) principally driven by the us 
department of defense (dod) biohazard 
programme
 ● moderate increase in service income to £3.2m 
(2016: £3.1m)
 ● trading loss improvement to £4.9m (2016: £5.4m) 
despite increased research & development and 
administrative costs
 ● cash at 30 june 2017 of £5.1m (2016: £1.1m)  
post £6.0m equity fund raising in july 2016;  
30 september 2017 cash of £4.2 (unaudited)
 ● loss for the year £6.4m, up 8.5% from £5.9m in  
the prior year reflecting an impairment charge and 
tax credit
£2.6m
+30.0%
development  
income 
(2016: £2.0m)
£5.1m
+363.6%
cash 
(2016: £1.1m) 
page title at start: content section at start:
highlights
strategic report genedrive plc annual report 2017
2
easy to use single  
button operation with
simple software. as 
stated in the trading statement of 13 july 2017, no additional 
short term revenues were expected from mtb/rif in india. revenues and operating margin 
were up on the same period last year. when confirmed the grant will be used to further our 
centrifuge free plasma separation device concept, so that 
page title at start: content section at start:
chief executive’s review financial statements governance strategic report 
 genedrive plc annual report 2017
 7
smaller facilities without centrifuges can also use 
genedrive® hcv id. awareness is lacking, reliable 
diagnostics that are appropriate for the 
setting of intended use and testing services 
are not sufficiently available and laboratory 
capacity is weak.’
– world health organisation
page title at start: content section at start:
market opportunity financial statements governance strategic report 
 genedrive plc annual report 2017
 9
clinical validation 
performed by institute 
pasteur, paris and 
queens medical centre 
nottingham. page title at start: content section at start: financial statements governance strategic report 
 genedrive plc annual report 2017
 11
non clinical applications
partners
pathogen 
detection
portability, flexibility and 
accuracy make genedrive
®
  
an attractive solution on 
pathogen detection markets. this list does 
not purport to be exhaustive. john rylands, stepped down 
from the board in november 2016 and we thank him for his 
excellent contribution to the company and wish him well for 
the future. matthew fowler joined the board on 
13 december 2016 in his role as chief financial officer. dr ian gilham
chairman
17 october 2017
page title at start: content section at start: genedrive plc annual report 2017
6
chief executive's review
overview
our transition to a commercial stage diagnostics business is 
well underway. the genedrive® platform – strategic progress
during the year we announced the successful studies on our 
hcv id kit conducted at the institut pasteur, paris and 
queens university nottingham. david budd
chief executive officer
we continue to make strong 
progress with a disciplined 
approach to executing our 
strategy. the board is encouraged 
by the growing momentum in the business and the outlook 
for genedrive plc. during the year, the group reviewed the useful economic life of 
its intangible assets. the group has 
therefore shortened the remaining lives of the assets and 
impaired the assets down to their fair value. simple
versatile
fast
our focus
changing the way molecular diagnostics  
and personalised medicine are delivered
genedrive
®
 is an innovative, 
easy to use platform that 
brings molecular diagnostics 
to decentralised laboratories. overview
genedrive® is a patented small polymerase chain reaction 
(pcr) platform which enables rapid nucleic acid amplification 
and detection from various sample types, including plasma, 
sputum and buccal swabs. with 
no manual calibration or maintenance required, genedrive® is 
ideal for low throughput, decentralised laboratories. various sample types 
including plasma, sputum
or buccal swab. with the advent of new ‘curative’ 
direct acting antiviral treatments for hepatitis c (hcv), there 
is a major opportunity to tackle the global burden of the 
disease if accurate, decentralised diagnostics can be used 
to identify those living with hcv and give them access to 
therapy. our genedrive® hcv id kit was submitted for ce 
registration in april 2017 based on excellent performance 
data from clinical validation studies. away from our core human healthcare focus, we enjoyed 
success with funded field trials of genedrive® for white-spot 
disease detection in farmed shrimp. the results validated 
genedrive®’s potential as a rapid cost effective system for 
disease detection in animals.