• 
good progress reported by sierra oncology in the two ongoing 
clinical studies with sra737 as both a monotherapy and in combination 
with chemotherapy in a range of cancers (june 2017). in disease models, 
sareum’s compounds demonstrated good oral bioavailability, 
were well tolerated and showed tumour reduction of up to 80% 
(october 2016). at a glance
see our 
research 
update on 
page 6
what we do
sareum is a specialist drug discovery and development 
company delivering targeted small molecule therapeutics, 
focusing on cancer and autoimmune disease, and 
generating value through licensing them to international 
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies at the 
preclinical or early clinical trials stage. successful conclusion to the biomedical catalyst funded 
feasibility study for tyk2, with lead compounds showing 
tumour regression in a disease model of t-all. all our laboratory-based research is carried out in the facilities 
of collaborators or third-party providers. members of the jak family are 
the targets of several marketed and clinical-stage drugs, although 
there are currently no marketed products specifically targeting tyk2. sareum aims to take advantage of the substantial values 
associated with out-licensing programmes at these stages. the transfer of development costs to sierra oncology, alongside 
income from the chk1 agreement, is enabling sareum to allocate 
more resources to its other programmes. ip considerations form a 
crucial part of due diligence when we are 
assessing in-licensing opportunities. the directors acknowledge that there is uncertainty concerning 
the outcome of the uk’s negotiations to exit the eu but do not 
currently consider that this represents a significant risk to the 
group’s prospects. the directors address these uncertainties by reviewing reports 
on scientific progress, business development and financial status 
at the monthly board meetings and implementing alternative 
plans to reduce the risks if these are considered necessary. a budget is approved by the board at the beginning of each 
financial year and performance is regularly monitored against 
budget with significant variances investigated. • 
received £229k in unspent funds previously invested in clinical 
development of chk1 upon the out-licensing of sra737. chairman’s statement
sareum also received £229k in unspent funds previously invested 
in the co-investment partnership with the crt pioneer fund for the 
clinical development of the chk1 programme during the second 
half of the period. the programme was licensed for further clinical 
development and commercialisation to nasdaq-listed sierra oncology 
in september 2016 in a deal worth a potential us$328.5 million plus 
royalties, of which sareum is eligible to receive 27 .5% of the economics. this company has a strong management team with 
a proven track record in oncology drug development and is well 
financed with us$116 million cash as at the end of june 2017. 
under the terms of the co-investment agreement with the 
crt pioneer fund, sareum is eligible to receive 27.5% of up to 
us$328.5 million in upfront, development and commercialisation 
milestone payments, as well as royalties on sales. in addition, sierra oncology is evaluating sra737 with preclinical 
studies in combination with targeted cancer therapeutics where 
there is a strong rationale for synergy with chk1 inhibition. a lead 
candidate is in preclinical development funded by sareum’s chinese 
partner, hebei medical university biomedical engineering center, and 
these studies suggest good tolerability at the predicted therapeutic 
dose. finally, i would like to thank our shareholders for their continued 
support and look forward to providing further updates on progress 
in 2018.
dr stephen parker
chairman
18 october 2017
“ sareum has gained an experienced, 
highly committed and well-funded 
development partner for sra737 in 
sierra oncology.“
 stephen parker dphil
 non-executive chairman
strategic report
sareum holdings plc  
annual report and accounts 2017 4 important clinical progress with 
sra737, a novel chk1 kinase inhibitor
sra737 (formerly cct245737) is a potent, highly selective, orally 
bioavailable small molecule inhibitor of chk1, a key regulator of 
important cell cycle checkpoints and central mediator of the 
dna damage response (ddr) network. sierra oncology intends to provide an update 
on the sra737 programme in late february 2018 
and expects to present data at a medical conference 
in h2 2018.
in addition, sierra oncology is evaluating sra737 , 
with potential clinical opportunities in 2018, in 
combination with targeted cancer therapeutics 
where there is a strong biological rationale for 
synergy with chk1 inhibition. • 
sareum is eligible to receive 27.5% of up to us$328.5 million 
in upfront, development and commercialisation milestone 
payments as well as royalties on sales. • 
an upfront payment of us$7 million and a first milestone payment 
of us$2 million have already been received from sierra oncology 
(september 2016 and january 2017 respectively). • 
net assets at period end were £2.34 million (2016: £1.86 million), 
of which £2.31 million comprised cash at bank (2016: £1.25 million). • 
£1.50 million received from sierra oncology as the company’s 
share of the us$7 million upfront payment from the out-licensing 
agreement for sra737 (september 2016). • 
successful outcome from feasibility study with tyk2 inhibitors in 
t -cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (t -all). chk1 kinase – targeting genetically defined solid cancers
sra737 (formerly cct245737) is a potent, highly selective, orally 
bioavailable small molecule inhibitor of chk1, a key regulator of 
important cell cycle checkpoints and central mediator of the dna 
damage response (ddr) network. • 
 a combination study with low-dose chemotherapy (gemcitabine) 
in genetically defined patients with two solid tumour types where 
gemcitabine is a standard care. these 
include immuno-oncology approaches (anti-pd-1 and pd-l1) 
and other ddr inhibitors (e.g. he has sector corporate finance 
experience having been an investment banker focusing on 
pharma and biotechnology with barings, warburg and apax 
partners and has previously held roles as a partner at celtic 
pharma and chief financial officer of oxford glycosciences. stephen also currently holds the position of chairman at 
liverpool chirochem and is a non-executive director at 
silence therapeutics plc. directors:
t mitchell phd 
j reader phd 
s parker dphil
secretary:
t bunn fcma 
registered office:
unit 2a, langford arch 
london road 
pampisford 
cambridge 
cambridgeshire 
cb22 3fx
registered number:
05147578 (england and wales)
auditor:
shipleys llp
chartered accountants 
and registered auditors 
10 orange street 
haymarket 
london 
wc2h 7dq
 stephen parker dphil
   non-executive chairman
 john reader phd
 founder and cso 
  tim mitchell phd
 founder and ceo governance
sareum holdings plc  
annual report and accounts 2017 12
the directors present the strategic report of the company 
and the group for the year ended 30 june 2017.
principal activities
the principal activities of the company in the year under review 
were those of a holding company. the board
the board of directors comprises two executive directors 
and one independent non-executive director, the chairman. read about 
progress 
with sra737 
on page 5 operational highlights
• 
lead cancer drug candidate sra737 (formerly cct245737), 
a novel chk1 inhibitor, licensed for clinical development and 
commercialisation to nasdaq-listed company sierra oncology, 
inc. by sareum’s co-investment partner, crt pioneer fund 
(september 2016). • 
patents protecting sra737 were granted in the usa and europe 
(may 2017), extending the protection period to 2033 in the usa. • 
further patent grants for aurora+fl t3 kinase programme in japan, 
singapore, china, and hong kong, completing intellectual property 
protection for the candidate in all major territories. financial highlights
• 
maiden profit (after taxation) on ordinary activities of £400k 
(2016: loss of £1.05 million). sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017
building value through 
drug development 
and licensing validating our 
business model
sareum’s small molecule drug 
discovery expertise generates value 
and revenues by developing drug 
candidates, focused on cancer and 
autoimmune diseases, and licensing 
them to pharmaceutical and 
biotechnology companies. these results support the further advancement 
of the programme. the licensing of sra737 to 
sierra oncology places the development and 
marketing of this exciting oncology candidate 
in the hands of a highly experienced team. the agreement has the potential to provide 
substantial funds, enabling us to advance 
and broaden our own pipeline programmes, 
and overall provides important validation of 
our business model and drug r&d expertise.