• since 2005, there has been a 300% increase in the number of illnesses that can be
treated using cord blood stem cells reﬂecting its use in the treatment of blood
disorders. • cord blood is currently in clinical trial for the treatment of cerebral palsy which is a
neurological disorder. • 82 different blood disorders have been treated using cord blood stem cell
transplantation. 82 illnesses can currently be treated using
stem cell procedures, and developments in its use in
illnesses such as cystic ﬁbrosis, cerebral palsy, diabetes
and autism have caught the headlines of late. to support the growth of these divisions, widecells group has built an experienced
board and senior management team, which was strengthened during the period
through the appointment of three new board members and the creation of a new
scientiﬁc advisory committee. each division made
signiﬁcant advances during the year as outlined below. as testimony to our commitment to both innovation and
education, in june 2017 the group was ranked as the 21st
most disruptive company globally by disrupt 100, an
annual index celebrating the businesses with the most
potential to inﬂuence, change or create new global
markets. during the year, it made signiﬁcant advances bolstering its
innovative offering to create new revenue opportunities
and expand its service globally. • additional upside via sale of indus, a novel synthetic bone graft which promotes new
bone formation – became a licenced provider in july 2017, with sales commencing in
q4 2017
• stem cell education and training division wideacademy
• advanced from vision to commercialisation, with revenue generation on track to
commence in h2 2018
• first phase of bespoke platform launched february 2018, with full commercial launch
targeted for h2 2018
• spearheaded by former director of education at apple, alan greenberg
• strengthened board and management team to drive new phase of revenue
growth and created a scientiﬁc advisory committee to continue to drive product
development
• recognised industry leader - won and been nominated for several awards:
• ranked 21 in the global disrupt 100 list, showing potential to inﬂuence, change and create
new global markets
• won power business of the year at the manchester awards 2017
• won corporatelivewire - healthcare and life sciences awards 2017, showing excellence in
stem cell research services
• nominated for the uk life science ipo of the year
• current cash position anticipated to be bolstered through placing and live
bookbuild to raise ~£1.80 million
• raised aggregate gross proceeds of approximately £1.4 million in two separate private
placings since the initial listing in july 2016
highlights overview –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 3
contents
01 03
04
overview
about widecells 01
highlights 02
chairman’s review 07
chief executive’s statement 10
strategic report 12
financial statements
other information
independent auditor’s report 38
consolidated income statement and statement
of other comprehensive income 42
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 43
consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 44
consolidated statement of changes in equity 45
notes to the group ﬁnancial statements 47
company balance sheet 67
statement of changes in equity 68
notes to the financial statements 69
company information 78
02
governance
board of directors 20
remuneration report 23
corporate governance 30
directors’ report 34
wideacademy overview widecells group plc annual report & accounts 2017––––––– 6 overview –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 7
we believe that the stem-cell sector is reaching a tipping
point in terms of the market’s understanding of its
potential to treat rare and life-threatening conditions; the
global stem cell market is currently valued at
c.us$96 billion and is predicted to grow to us$170 billion
by 2020 and us$270.5 billion by 2025, implying a cagr of
13.8%. this resulted in an
inﬂection point with ﬁrst revenues generated before the year end. cryoviva has c.250,000 inspected
samples stored to-date which represents almost 9% of all
samples stored worldwide, with forecasts to store
c.25,000 new samples every year. cellplan will be
launched to cryoviva customers on a phased basis,
commencing in h2 2018, providing staged revenue
increases. widecells group plc
annual report & accounts 2017
worldwide provider
of stem cell services  overview –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 1
about widecells
widecells group plc is building an integrated stem cell services company, focused on
making stem cell treatments accessible and affordable. the directors believe that the
use of cord blood stem cells for transplant will drive one of the next important phases
in medicine and the group is developing market leading products in complementary,
strategic areas which are designed to take advantage of substantial market
opportunities in one of the fastest growing segments in the healthcare industry. keeping this in mind, widecells group plc has been developing its three divisions:
• cellplan: the world’s ﬁrst stem cell healthcare insurance plan providing ﬁnancial
cover for a second medical opinion and recommendation of the best transplant
centre worldwide, private cord blood transplantation costs, travel to treatment
centre where required, accommodation expenses and concierge service to manage
the whole transplant process. the
focus is on stem cell research and regenerative medicine. through widecells brasil, it also operates a stem cell
laboratory in são paulo, brazil, licensed by the brazilian
regulatory authority, the agência naciónal de vigilância
sanitáría (anvisa). he replaced mr. zakaria aziz who stepped down from his
position as non-executive director. widecells ltd has received the hta licence. the group’s chief scientiﬁc oﬃcer, professor hollands
oversees the group’s operations at the laboratory. the group expects that the cellplan
insurance will be priced within the range of
£150-£300 p.a. to implement this strategy, the group has developed
a user-friendly e-commerce website allowing potential
policyholders to purchase cellplan online. widecells
the directors’ intention is to continue developing
widecells’ products to support and enhance its existing
offerings. he is
the designated individual under the hta licence. cord blood stem cell facts:
• umbilical cord blood (the blood remaining in the umbilical cord and placenta
following the birth of a baby) provides the most effective source of haemopoietic
stem cells for families. collection of cord blood at birth is simple, safe and painless
compared to other sources of haemopoietic stem cells such as bone marrow,
which requires a general anaesthetic and a surgical procedure to collect. widecells
is focused on promoting the collection and storage of umbilical cord blood and
tissue. • despite initial cord blood collection, processing and storage often costing no more
than a few thousand pounds, cord blood stem cell transplantation for blood
disorders costs hundreds of thousands of pounds. more recently, post period end, our ceo,
joão andrade, was awarded the ceo europe award 2018
by ceo today magazine. the aim is now to roll cellplan out internationally
i am delighted to be part of this ground-breaking company and
deliver my inaugural statement as its chairman; the prospects of
widecells group truly excite me. chairman’s review
peter presland
chairman widecells group plc annual report & accounts 2017––––––– 8
and include additional product offerings over time. directorship appointments included: alan greenberg,
previously vice president of wideacademy and a group
non-executive director, who became a group executive
director and group chief business development oﬃcer
whilst remaining vice president of wideacademy; malcolm
glaister, who has held a number of management roles
across a broad spectrum of leading investment and trading
businesses and joined as a non-executive director; and
myself as non-executive chairman, having previously held
several senior directorship positions with both large and
small companies in the insurance, healthcare and it
industries. the widecells isct also
has a cryogenics division specialising in cell freezing and long term stem cell
storage. widecells group plc annual report & accounts 2017––––––– 2
• launched a portfolio of stem cell services designed to make stem cell treatments
accessible and affordable worldwide
• focused on driving global sales and revenues across the group’s three divisions:
• innovative insurance product cellplan, the world’s ﬁrst insurance plan and
medical concierge service for the cord blood stem cell industry
• secured a number of commercial agreements with stem cell banks to facilitate roll-out
and launched a bespoke e-commerce platform
• fully live in the uk with initial sales secured as part of a test launch to customers of
biovault, a leading storage facility
• launch in spain underway
• agreements in place to launch in thailand, singapore india and brazil in h2 2018
• stem cell storage and pioneering research work, operated via widecells ltd’s
state-of-the-art institute of stem cell technology (isct) in manchester, uk
• awarded human tissue authority (hta) research licence july 2017 to undertake paid-
for-research work on stem cell therapy and regenerative medicine – three projects
already secured, which are collectively worth ~£300,000
• includes government-backed innovate uk knowledge transfer partnership with
manchester metropolitan university to undertake research on a new form of stem cell
technology in march 2018. cellplan
cellplan has developed the world’s ﬁrst stem cell
healthcare insurance plan and medical concierge service,
designed to revolutionise stem cell healthcare by making
stem cell transplants affordable for families who require
treatment for life threatening diseases. a deﬁnitive agreement has also been secured
with hemocord clinica medica ltd in brazil, a world-class
leader in cord blood storage, which is set to provide
cellplan access to the largest cord blood storage market
in south america, a market projected to be worth
us$445 million by 2023.
in march this year widecells announced a landmark deal
with cryoviva group, an established cord blood storage
facility with operations in thailand, singapore and india, to
sell cellplan in asia. • widecells: the widecells institute of stem cell technology (isct) has been
established and is based in the university of manchester innovation centre. • includes government-backed innovate uk knowledge transfer partnership with
manchester metropolitan university to undertake research on a new form of stem cell
technology in march 2018. we are proud to be recognised as an intrinsic part
of this medical revolution. it secured an agreement
with biovault technical ltd, the uk’s largest private human
tissue storage facility (‘biovault’), to roll-out cellplan to
biovault’s client base.