change in level of risk
 increase
uk referendum to leave the european union (“eu”) – brexit
the strategic report on pages 2 to 13 was approved by the board on 20 april 2018 and signed on its behalf by:
duncan peyton
chief executive officer
20 april 2018
13 4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017
4dpharmaplc.com
s audit and risk committee a
remuneration committee r
chairman
board of directors
we believe in the importance 
of good corporate governance
david norwood
non-executive chairman 
a
 
r
david has had a long career building a number of science, technology 
and investment companies. alexander stevenson 
chief scientific officer
alex began his career as a microbiologist, working in research for a 
number of years before joining an nyse-quoted drug development 
company. before this thomas worked in 
life sciences for over 20 years in senior executive roles. board composition and responsibility
the board consists of four directors, two of 
whom are non-executive. importantly, we understand 
mechanism. governance and board
the board is committed to maintaining 
high standards of governance, both at 
board level and operationally throughout 
the business. any 
new drug or modality brings concern over 
safety, and it is rightly the top priority for the 
industry and regulators. notwithstanding this, given the pull for new 
or better medicines, industry and investors 
are prepared to accept such risks and, as we 
have recently seen with the interest in car-t 
therapies, successfully bringing a new 
therapeutic class to market can deliver 
significant value to investors. 4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017 02
strategic report an integrated biopharma company
microrx – our proprietary discovery platform
our discovery platform, microrx, allows us to rapidly 
identify strains of gut bacteria which may have a 
therapeutic effect in specific diseases. this puts a 
high expectation on live biotherapeutics 
and the field of microbiome research, 
and to date the field has fallen short 
of this expectation. we believe understanding mechanism 
is critical to the development of live 
biotherapeutics as a therapeutic class; 
we do not believe the field can continue to 
take an “ecobiotic” approach to therapeutics, 
simply relying on a correlation of the presence/
absence of bacteria. the trial will primarily investigate 
the safety of mrx0004 and will additionally 
have a suite of secondary endpoints to give 
an indication of efficacy. live biotherapeutics have the potential to transform the way in which many diseases 
are treated. we understand that bacteria in the human intestine – known 
as the gut microbiome – have an important function in health and disease, but importantly 
– we understand how they function, and how they function as a drug. understanding how they function means that our live biotherapeutics are potentially 
providing new and effective treatments for ibs and crohn’s disease and game-changing 
treatments for cancer, asthma and autoimmune conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis 
and multiple sclerosis. 4d and the live biotherapeutics we develop have the potential to transform 
the way in which many challenging diseases are treated. duncan peyton
chief executive officer
20 april 2018
the group continues to manage its cash 
deposits prudently and invests its funds 
across a number of financial institutions 
which have investment grade credit ratings. more details on the group’s treasury 
policies are provided in note 24 to the 
financial statements. cash, cash equivalents 
and cash on deposit (£m)
£50.0m -27%
50.0 16.9
68.8 10.2
85.4 8.4
17
16
15
17
16
15
4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017 10
strategic report risk and risk management
identifying and understanding 
key risks to the business
the board
ensures comprehensive and 
appropriate systems of risk 
management and control are 
in place across the group
review of the principal risks 
within the group and approval 
of the group risk register 
reports to the shareholders 
about the risk management 
within the group 
executive leadership team
responsible for the design 
and implementation of the 
risk management and internal 
control systems 
review of the group-wide 
risk registers and reporting 
to the board 
department and 
subsidiary heads
maintenance of the department risk 
registers, implementation and 
monitoring of all internal controls 
reporting to the executive 
leadership team 
setting the tone designing the system
implementation of the system 
and completion of review
review of process and outputs review of high risk areas risk registers
during the year the group has continued to grow 
and with this growth the management and mitigation 
of risk has become more important. 4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017 14
corporate governance this section of the annual report 
describes the group’s corporate 
governance structures and 
processes and how they have 
been applied during the year 
ended 31 december 2017.
the company’s ordinary shares have 
been admitted to trading on aim of the 
london stock exchange and the company 
is subject to the continuing requirements 
of the aim rules. to turn this into life-changing 
medicines: that requires something more. t o turn this into a whole new class of medicines: 
that requires something special. what makes us different? what sets us apart? adjusted loss per share 
excludes non-recurring costs (see note 9). cash, cash equivalents 
and cash on deposit (£m)
£50.0m
50.0
68.8
85.4
17
16
15
adjusted loss per share* 
(pence)
26.08p
26.08
15.21
12.62
17
16
15
total comprehensive 
loss after tax (£m)
£19.4m
19.4
10.3
7.7
17
16
15
expenditure on research 
and development (£m)
£16.9m
16.9
10.2
8.4
17
16
15
total equity (£m) 
£69.8m
69.8
86.5
92.7
17
16
15
01 4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017
4dpharmaplc.com developing science, 
delivering therapies. the fda 
approved only 22 new drugs in 2016 and 
only eight of those were first in class. consequently, we are looking to address 
the ibs subtypes (ibs-c (constipation) and 
ibs-d (diarrhoea)) in our upcoming phase ii 
trial. 05 4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017
4dpharmaplc.com
s chief executive officer’s report continued
on both microbiome and metabolite profiles, 
and the commonalities of the microbiome 
across all ibs subtypes. these systems can 
be summarised as follows:
11 4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017
4dpharmaplc.com
s why is it important? he is the founder of ip group plc, one 
of the uk’s leading technology commercialisation businesses, and a 
shareholder in the company. previously, he was chief executive of 
stockbroker beeson gregory (acquired by evolution group plc) after 
it acquired indexit partnership, a technology advisory boutique he 
had founded in 1999. he was a founding shareholder of evolution 
group plc (recently acquired by investec), and also co-founder 
of ora capital plc. a world leader in 
an emerging field
4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017
4d pharma plc annual report and accounts 2017 we are pioneers in harnessing 
bacteria as a novel and 
revolutionary class of medicines: 
live biotherapeutics
world-class science is the foundation of medical discovery. we are building something special at 4d pharma. °
we are targeting a new, safer approach to drug development 
 °
we are a fully integrated microbiome company with the capability 
to progress from research to production to clinic
 °
we understand mechanism: how our products exert their therapeutic 
effects and act as a drug
 °
we have developed and wholly own the largest intellectual 
property estate in the field 
learn more about what we do
page 2
stay up to date on our website
4dpharmaplc.com highlights
operational highlights
 °
successful progression of our proprietary clinical programmes in irritable bowel 
syndrome and paediatric crohn’s disease
 °
completion of the first clinical trial of the microdx diagnostic and patient stratification 
platform, validating the platform and representing achievement of the initial 
milestone from the acquisition of 4d pharma cork limited in february 2016
 °
data generated in this clinical study demonstrated: our ability to use patient 
microbiome and metabolite profiles to differentiate ibs subjects from healthy 
individuals; and the commonalities of the microbiome across all ibs subtypes, 
supporting the use of blautix, our live biotherapeutic for the treatment of ibs, 
in all these subgroups
 °
development of our intellectual property estate, the largest in the microbiome 
sector, to help secure and consolidate our leading position in the field, having at 
year end 207 granted patents and 320 patent applications, from 32 patent families
 °
securing gmp certification for the production of live biotherapeutics at our 
development and manufacturing facility in león, spain, with the potential 
capacity to run up to 100 million capsules per annum
strategic report
02 4d pharma at a glance
04 chairman’s statement
05 chief executive officer’s report
08 our business model and strategy
10 our key performance indicators
11 risk and risk management
corporate governance
14 board of directors
15 corporate governance statement
18 report of the audit and risk committee
20 report of the remuneration committee
22 directors’ report
24 statement of directors’ responsibilities
financial statements
25 independent auditor’s report
28 group statement of total comprehensive income
29 group statement of financial position
30 company statement of financial position
31 group statement of changes in equity
32 company statement of changes in equity
33 group cash flow statement
34 company cash flow statement
35 notes to the financial statements
61 company information
financial highlights
*  basic and diluted. 4d has grown from pioneering microbiome research to the 
only integrated, world-leading live biotherapeutics company. but to realise that potential, the sector needs robust clinical data. we are 
well positioned to deliver that data. in 2017, we laid foundations that have positioned 4d to transform the sector; with four 
clinical programmes set to deliver data and a number of development programmes 
heading towards the clinic, 4d will play the lead role in defining the sector. watch our new video:
4dpharmaplc.com
highly attractive safety profile
toxicity and unwanted side effects are a 
constant challenge in drug development.