working in partnership to provide 
distinctive solutions that deliver 
compelling value for money. driving the development of new 
technologies and capabilities 
that lead the market. it starts by building  
a large installed base of original 
equipment used in highly abrasive 
operating environments. comprehensive global support
our global service centre network is  
the most extensive in our main markets, 
delivering rapid support to customers in 
the need-it-now industries we serve. highlights
decisive short-term actions  
to capture opportunities
financial highlights
 – minerals orders increased 11%
 – oil & gas orders increased 67%
 – flow control orders reduced by 6% 
 – roce increased 290 basis points
strategic highlights
 – embedded behavioural safety 
programme
 – invested in additional engineers  
on customer sites
 – developed new technology  
and people strategies
 – initiated more than 80 value chain 
excellence improvement projects
notes:
2017 refers to the year from 1 january to 31 december 2017. 2016 restated at 2017 average exchange rates. 2.  adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation. reported operating profit and profit before tax from continuing operations were £223m (2016: £90m) and £181m (2016: £43m) respectively. delivering strong growth 
and strategic progress
the weir group plc 
annual report and financial statements 2017
the weir group plc annual report and financial statements 2017 we have immense pride in our heritage and our 
history of innovative engineering. contents
strategic report
highlights  01
our business model  02
our market drivers 04
chairman’s statement  06
chief executive  
officer’s review  08
strategy at a glance 12
strategy in action 14
key performance indicators  22
financial review  24
operational review  28
risk review 46
principal risks  
and uncertainties 50
sustainability review 57
corporate governance
corporate governance report 68
board of directors 70
leadership 73
effectiveness 78
accountability 82
relations with shareholders  
and stakeholders 83
nomination committee  
report 85
audit committee report 88
directors’ remuneration  
report 95
directors’ report 116
statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 119
financial statements
independent auditors’ report  120
consolidated income  
statement 126
consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 127
consolidated balance sheet 128
consolidated cash flow 
statement 129
consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 130
notes to the group  
financial statements 131
company balance sheet  186
company statement  
of changes in equity 187
notes to the company  
financial statements 188
additional information
subsidiary undertakings 202
shareholder information 210
glossary 214
financial calendar  216
keep up-to-date with all our 
news at www.global.weir
 people  14 customers 16 technology 18 performance 20
see our strategy at a glance for more information. 3. continuing operations excludes american hydro corporation and ynfiniti engineering services. details of other non-gaap measures are contained in note 2 of the financial statements. read more in  
ceo’s review  
on page 8.
read more in our 
people section  
on page 14.
read more in our 
sustainability section 
on page 57.
read more in our 
communities section 
on page 64.
read more in  
our ethics section  
on page 62.
our vision
to be the most admired engineering business in  
our markets. read more in  
ceo’s review  
on page 8.
read more in our 
people section  
on page 14.
read more in our 
sustainability section 
on page 57.
read more in our 
communities section 
on page 64.
read more in  
our ethics section  
on page 62. you can read more in  
operating review on page 28. you can read more about the board’s  
visit on page 81.
on behalf of the board, i wish to record 
our gratitude to all weir employees  
for their efforts throughout the year  
in delivering for our shareholders, 
customers and communities. its differentiated technology is used  
in mining, oil and gas and general 
industrial markets around the world. it also provides specialist support  
services to the global power  
generation, industrial, oil and gas  
and other aftermarket-orientated  
process industries. as a result, and supported  
by increased urbanisation, demand for natural resources  
and energy, which drives the group’s primary markets,  
is expected to continue to rise. concerns over climate change has led a number of countries 
to set long-term targets to ban the sale of cars powered only 
by fossil fuels. 2016 refers to the period 2 january to 31 december 2016. 1. 1 . 1 . mission-critical solutions
we focus on solutions that are essential  
to our customers’ operations and where  
our engineering expertise enables them  
to achieve their business objectives 
safely, efficiently and sustainably. our distinctive competencies
the group is committed to building 
long-term value for all our stakeholders. customers and suppliers
a solutions mindset that is innovative, 
collaborative and fosters enduring 
strategic partnerships. see more in the minerals  
operational review on page 28. 
weir flow control 
weir flow control designs and 
manufactures valves and pumps. h t tp s : // e s a . u n . o r g /u n p d / w p p / p u b l i c a t i o n s / f i l e s / w p p 2 0 1 7 _ k e y f i n di n g s.p d f
our response
the group operates in a diverse range of markets that  
have the potential to be impacted in different ways by  
the growth in electric transportation and efforts to tackle  
climate change. h t tp s : // e s a . we work together, 
supporting and challenging each other, with a passion 
to build a stronger legacy for the next generation. caring for our colleagues, our 
neighbours and the environment 
and inspiring them to flourish. delivering excellence for all our 
stakeholders through strong 
leadership, accountability and  
a lean mindset. developing and enhancing these are  
at the heart of the group’s strategy,  
as expressed in our four distinctive 
competencies. the value we create
investors
strong returns from growth ahead of  
our end markets enabled by a clearly 
defined and well-executed strategy. the value we create
investors
strong returns from growth ahead of  
our end markets enabled by a clearly 
defined and well-executed strategy. while the pace of growth has slowed in recent years,  
the upward trend continues. the global policy environment is evolving with increased 
political uncertainty in some regions as the benefits of 
globalisation are questioned and trade pacts are renegotiated.