bowleven also 
seeks to influence its business partners and contractors 
in striving to achieve top-tier performance in delivering a 
safe, secure and compliant operation. an environmental and social impact assessment has 
been independently conducted for the bomono 
development and this involved stakeholder engagement 
and consultations. discussions are in progress to secure approval for a farm-
in arrangement which requires government exploitation 
authorisation approval and their support for the farm-in. bowleven’s board is responsible for regularly reviewing 
and updating the group risk register and matrix and 
considering the key risks facing the business. the commercial terms and legal 
documentation remain the subject of negotiations 
owing to various stakeholder discussions. — cameroon government approval for the completion 
of this farm-out arrangement has not been received 
to date. no outstanding work programme 
commitments. — completed organisational restructuring 
commensurate with our non operated portfolio 
giving rise to significant general and administration 
(g&a) cost reductions. they 
asked us if we would be prepared to be nominated as 
directors of bowleven and we each agreed to stand for 
election as independent directors. board changes
a general meeting was requisitioned and, as 
shareholders now know, on 14 march 2017, eli chahin 
and i were elected directors and the then chief 
executive officer, chief financial officer and three of 
the non-executive directors were removed from office. he holds a number of board 
appointments and currently serves as a senior 
advisor to alixpartners, a leading international 
consulting firm. board structure
the board currently comprises two executive directors and three 
non-executive directors, including the chairman. no outstanding 
work programme 
commitments
$40m
access to $40m (net) 
carry for drilling/testing 
two etinde appraisal 
wells
$25m
payment of $25m is due 
from joint venture (jv)
partners once a final 
investment decision (fid) 
is reached on the 
development of the 
etinde field
operational
etinde, offshore cameroon
 — ongoing operator evaluation of development 
options, including scope for early-stage development 
plans that align with the government’s preferred 
offtake solutions. other
 — pre-march 2017, the board signed an agreement to 
farm-out 80% of the group’s interest in the bomono 
production sharing contract to victoria oil & gas plc 
(vog). corporate
 — group cash balance at 30 june 2017 circa $86m; 
no debt. — under the etinde transaction, access to further 
$40m (net) carry for two appraisal wells (including 
testing) and $25m at fid. on behalf of the board
eli chahin
chief executive officer
7 november 2017 chris ashworth
chairman
bowleven plc
annual report and accounts 2017 15
strategic report corporate governance financial statements
chairman’s statement
delivering value for 
all shareholders
2017 has been a transformative year for bowleven,  
both in terms of its board and its operating model. david clarkson, the chief operating officer, was not 
the subject of a requisition to remove him and remained 
in post as coo. on 31 march, it was announced that billy allan had 
resigned from the board and eli chahin was appointed 
as chief executive officer. joe darby joined the 
board, as non-executive director, bringing extensive 
oil and gas experience, and i became chairman. with new leadership and a fresh approach, 
we are looking forward to the value of our 
assets being recognised in the bowleven share 
price as we continue to progress in 2018.
chris ashworth
non-executive chairman
contents
strategic report
who we are  ifc
corporate highlights and outlook  01
bowleven at a glance 02
ceo statement 04
strategic framework 06
operating review 07
corporate social responsibility 10
ceo financial review  11
risks and internal controls  12
corporate governance
chairman’s statement 15
board of directors  16
corporate governance  18
directors’ report  20
directors’ remuneration report 23
statement of directors’ responsibilities 28
financial statements
independent auditor’s report  29
primary statements  33
notes forming part of the  
financial statements  41
shareholder information
notice of annual general meeting 66
glossary  69
advisers and registered office  71 cameroon
olhp-1
mlhp-7
olhp-2
douala basin
rio del rey 
basin
etinde  
permit
bomono permit
bowleven plc
annual report and accounts 2017 02
bowleven at a glance
an africa-focused  
oil and gas company
bowleven plc has strategic interests in key hydrocarbon licences in cameroon. key stats bowleven plc
annual report and accounts 2017 03
strategic report corporate governance financial statements
our portfolio
etinde
the etinde permit (formerly mlhp-7 block) was awarded an 
exploitation authorisation in july 2014. the production sharing 
contract based permit has a term of 20 years with an option to extend 
for a further ten years. we have 
identified multiple tertiary and cretaceous age prospects and leads, 
as well as the hydrocarbons identified in the moambe and zingara 
exploration wells drilled in 2015.
find out more on our website 
www.bowleven.com eli chahin
chief executive officer
bowleven plc
annual report and accounts 2017 04
ceo statement
a strong platform for growth 
following transformational change
2017 was a year of significant change for bowleven. the 
strategic review has led to a restructuring of bowleven 
as a company and organisation, with major staff 
reductions in the uk head office and in our euroil 
offices in cameroon. transforming  
the business
bowleven plc 
annual report and accounts
2017
bowleven plc annual report and accounts 2017 who we are
bowleven plc is an independent 
aim listed oil and gas company 
focused on africa, where it 
holds a combination of 
development and exploration 
interests in cameroon. — two carried appraisal well locations agreed with our 
partners targeting combined additional in-place 
volumes of up to 2 tcf of gas and associated liquid 
resource; drilling to progress once agreed by the 
etinde jv partners. bomono, onshore cameroon
 — bomono development concept defined to access 
existing cameroon infrastructure and potential 
monetisation route. — working with our partners on etinde development 
options and on the appraisal drilling programme 
in 2018. our purpose
bowleven plc is dedicated to realising 
material shareholder value from its  
assets in cameroon, whilst maintaining 
capital discipline and employing a  
rigorously selective approach to other  
value-enhancing opportunities. find out more on our website 
www.bowleven.com bowleven plc
annual report and accounts 2017 01
strategic report corporate governance financial statements
corporate highlights
$86m
cash and bank deposits 
held at end june 2017 
no debt. — impairment of bomono intangible exploration asset 
by $46m, reflecting the impact of the vog farm-in 
agreement on the asset valuation. — ensuring our capital is rigorously guarded to 
maximise value of every dollar invested for our 
shareholders. having substantially 
reduced the operating costs and maintained a strong balance sheet, 
the company is well positioned to develop its assets. our capital discipline is underpinned by a strong 
financial position, which will remain a recurring 
theme into next year. the prolonged downturn in the industry is creating 
opportunities for bowleven by providing the ability 
to access lower development costs for its assets 
and to continue to challenge cost efficiency in the 
investment cycle. with its robust financial position, 
bowleven is in an ideal position to capitalise on 
these opportunities as they arise. — prospect inventory compiled highlighting both 
tertiary and cretaceous prospectivity. the licence sits in the prolific rio del rey basin. bomono
the bomono permit is located in an onshore extension of the douala 
basin. the potentially transformational etinde appraisal 
drilling campaign during 2018 will enable us to 
further define the asset monetisation route for this 
potentially world-class asset.