10
corporate and 
social responsibility
read more about  
our sustainable and 
responsible practice. see outside flap for the full group overview. further details can be found in the financial review section. this 
process is ongoing and updates  
will be provided in due course. similarly, within our books business 
we have taken further steps to  
 
tesco turned to mobile services 
provider the app business 
(‘tab’) to respond to an 
ever-increasing demand for 
convenience among london-
based grocery shoppers. tesco had already conducted 
experiments to collect shopper 
data, providing early insight 
for a discovery phase run by 
tab’s strategy team. with tesco being such 
a strong brand, it was essential 
for the app to behave and feel 
like an integrated channel. tab’s 
designers developed a sleek user 
interface that maintained the 
familiar tesco brand experience 
on mobile. st ives plc  
annual report and 
accounts 2017 st ives plc  
annual report and 
accounts 2017
welcome to st ives plc 
who we are
our group today 
st ives is an international marketing services group 
comprised of 17 successful and dynamic marketing 
and print services businesses. operational highlights financial highlights
highlights
st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 01
financial highlights
* adjusted profit before tax and adjusted basic earnings per share exclude adjusting items. adjusting items comprise of redundancies, empty property and restructuring costs; impairments, gain or loss on disposal 
of properties; costs related to the acquisitions or setting up of new subsidiaries; impairment or amortisation charges related to goodwill tangible and intangible assets; contingent consideration required to be 
treated as remuneration; movements in deferred consideration and costs related to the st ives defined benefits pension scheme. corporate governance strategic report our figures
03 st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 03
 
case study
unilever and amaze are working together to tell 
unilever’s powerful sustainability story. – significant progress in key strategic priorities of 
collaboration and internationalisation:
• 209 clients currently working with more than 
one business across the group, a 39% increase 
compared to the previous year. – due to continued decline, decisive action taken  
to improve performance of the two legacy  
segments – marketing activation and books. the books division has 
also been affected by low margins 
and the loss of a major publishing 
contract. we have completed the first stage 
of a board evaluation, which is 
carried out every other year. we operate not as 
a single entity but as a group of market-leading 
businesses, each with its own unique value 
proposition. our businesses offer complementary 
services and collaborate closely with each other 
when this adds value to clients. 02
our business model 
and strategy
read about our business 
model and strategy  
for growth. 28 we manage our business  
in three distinct segments 
 
our industry-leading strategic marketing 
businesses have strong capabilities across three 
specialist high-growth areas: digital, data and 
insight. governance
the ceo, matt armitage, and 
the cfo, brad gray, have worked 
tirelessly to tackle the issues in our 
marketing activation and books 
segments. a new 
management team within digital 
now oversees amaze, realise 
and branded3. in data, damian 
coverdale’ s remit has grown to 
include occam, amaze one and 
bench, alongside response one. this involved:
• conducting a twelve month, on-site survey  
across all of unilever’s websites;
• reviewing unilever.com against industry best 
practice to identify improvement areas; and
• developing personae based on insights to test 
and improve target audience understanding. 04
strategy in action
read more about how we 
continue to deliver against  
our strategic priorities. their diligence and 
calmness under pressure meant  
that short-term considerations  
have not caused us to deviate  
from our strategic priorities. john will oversee the 
implementation of the general 
data protection regulation (‘gdpr’) 
compliance and lead our collective 
efforts to reduce risk brought about 
by these legal changes. as for brexit, the future economic 
effects remain unclear. digital insight data
strategic marketing marketing activation books
24% 8% 10%
£93.0m £32.3m £37.7m
revenue revenue revenue
% of group revenue % of group revenue % of group revenue
39%
£153.7m
19%
£76.5m
revenue revenue
% of group revenue % of group revenue
welcome st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017
welcome to st ives plc
ifc who we are
01 highlights
strategic report
02 chairman’s statement
04 our business model and strategy
06 chief executive’s performance review
08 segment overview
10 strategy in action
10 – collaboration
14 – acquisition
18 – internationalisation
20 financial review
23 key performance indicators
24 principal risks and uncertainties
28 corporate and social responsibility
corporate governance
32 corporate governance report
36 board of directors
38 audit committee report
41 nomination committee report
42 letter from chair of remuneration 
committee
45 directors’ remuneration report
62 directors’ report
65 statement of directors’  
responsibilities
our figures
66  independent auditors’ report  
to the members of st ives plc
74 consolidated income statement
75 consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
76 consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
77 consolidated balance sheet
78 consolidated statement of cash flows
79 notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
120 company balance sheet
121 statement of changes in equity
122 notes to the company financial 
statements
129 financial calendar and shareholder 
information
the strategic report on pages 2 to 31 has been approved  
by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by
matt armitage
chief executive
2 october 2017
inside your report
chairman’s 
statement
read about our  
chairman’s highlights. corporate governance strategic report our figures
01 st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017
strategic report
– strategic marketing now contributing 42% of 
group revenue (2016 – 39%) and 75% of adjusted 
operating profit, with encouraging new project wins. • nine strategic marketing businesses serving 
clients on an international basis, representing over 
39% of strategic marketing revenue (2016 – 37%). – further revenue growth of 13% in the strategic 
marketing segment, with organic growth 
contributing 5%. we have taken steps to create 
a culture of knowledge sharing. solstice and the app business 
(‘tab’) continue to collaborate and 
thrive through sharing resource and 
working practices, a model we’re 
encouraging businesses across the 
group to adopt. we constantly review 
systems across all our facilities in the 
belief that everyone has a right to 
risk-free working conditions. unilever’s sustainability content  
needs to be accessible to everyone, everywhere  
– from consumers to investors, and nutritionists  
to journalists. a new, streamlined digital sustainability section was 
required for unilever.com. it required consistent 
navigation and signposting to make complex 
information easy to access, understand and share. amaze explored digital data insights across the 
network to understand visitors and their journeys, 
and inform a strategy. in addition to creating a simpler and more coherent 
navigation system that adapts as the user travels 
deeper into the sustainability content, amaze has 
introduced new components that help to create a 
richer visual design, with better signposting for the 
reader, and improved content findability.