we are maintaining 
the number and depth of price-led promotions which 
also rotate at the managers’ discretion. this 
allows us to pick up business which better utilises 
the fixed assets we’ve already invested in without 
compromising our ability to serve our stores and 
customers. food-to-go
within the food-to-go category, the same level 
of local customer focus continues to be applied 
by our managers and trained cooks. in addition to these exciting fresh meat and  
food-to-go opportunities, which continue to 
anchor our value credentials, we have stepped 
up our marketing activity to maintain our current 
momentum in building customer frequency and 
loyalty. strategic report
ifc our business at a glance
02 chairman’s statement
04  chief executive officer’s review
06  chief financial officer’s review 
08  strategy and business model
09 kpis and risk management 
governance
10  board of directors
11  directors’ report
14 report of the remuneration   
 committee
16 statement of directors’   
 responsibilities 
17  independent auditor’s report
financial statements
18  consolidated statement  
 of comprehensive income
19  balance sheets
20  consolidated statements  
 of changes in shareholders‘ equity
21 cash flow statements
22 notes to the financial statements 
ibc  directors and advisors
what’s inside
ifc-09
10-17
18-38 crawshaw group plc
annual report           52 weeks  ended 29 january 201 7
02
• 19% increase in group turnover to £44.2m 
(2016: £37.1m)
• adjusted ebitda* £1.3m (2016: £2.6m)
• ebitda** of £0.1m (2016: £1.0m)
• lfl **** sales -7 .3% (2016: + 1.8%)
• 49 trading stores at year end (2016: 39 
trading stores)
• underlying operating loss*** before 
tax of £1.1m (2016: £0.1m underlying 
operating profit)
• statutory loss before tax of £1.4m (2016: 
loss before tax £0.3m)
• cash balances of £2.1m at 29 january 201 7 
(£4.9m at 31 january 2016)
• no final dividend proposed (2016: 0.47p)
*  adjusted ebitda is defined by group as profit/loss 
before tax, exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation, 
profit/(loss) on disposal of assets, net finance costs, 
share based payment charges attributable to the ltip 
growth share scheme and accelerated opening costs. in the period these costs amounted to 
£1.2m (2016: £1.6m) resulting in an adjusted ebitda of 
£1.3m (2016: £2.6m). **  ebitda is defined by the group as profit/loss before tax, 
exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation, profit/
(loss) on disposal of assets, net finance costs and shared 
based payment charge attributable to the ltip growth 
share scheme. ***  underlying operating loss is defined by the group as 
operating profit before exceptional items and share 
based payment charges attributable to the ltip growth 
share scheme. areas of representation
our business  
at a glance
our locations
stores
 ashton under lyne the arcades
 astley   fresh meat factory shop 
 barnsley  barnsley market
 belle vale   belle vale shopping centre
 bilston   high street
 birchwood  birchwood shopping centre
 birkenhead  grange precinct
 blackburn   railway road
 bolton  newport street
 burnley  charter walk shopping centre
 bury  millgate centre
 cannock   market hall street
 castleford  carlton street
 chesterfield  pavements 
 chorley  chorley market
 derby  westfield
 doncaster  frenchgate
 gainsborough market square
 gorton  hyde road
 grimsby  top town
 hellaby  factory shop
 huddersfield new street
 hull  whitefriargate 
 hull  bransholme
 hyde  market place
 leeds  leeds market 
 leeds  bramley 
 leeds  merrion centre
 leicester   cheapside
 lincoln  lincoln market
 loughborough market place
 manchester  arndale centre
 mansfield  westgate
 pocklington  market place
new trading stores in year 
stores at 29 january 201 7
 retford  carolgate
 rochdale  yorkshire street
 rotherham  howard street
 salford  salford shopping city
 scunthorpe  warren road
 sheffield  the moor
 southport  marble place shopping  
   centre
 st helen’s  church square centre
 stockport  mersey square
 stretford  arndale centre
 wakefield  the ridings centre
 worksop  the priory centre
 warrington  market gate
 west bromwich dudley street
 widnes   albert road
shopping centres 33%
high street 49%
markets 8%
factory shops 10% 01 crawshaw group plc
annual report           52 weeks  ended 29 january 201 7
strategic report governance financial statements
awards and accreditation
6 gold awards by bpex for pork product 
excellence. • introduction of more value-led promotions  
 (e.g. alan richardson
chief financial officer
25 april 2017 crawshaw group plc
annual report           52 weeks  ended 29 january 201 7
08
our management team have extensive experience in 
sourcing quality meat products from tried and tested 
local and international suppliers at the lowest possible 
prices. the group operates from a head 
office and distribution centre in rotherham, plus 
49 retail locations across yorkshire, lincolnshire, 
nottinghamshire, derbyshire, the north west and 
the midlands. we have also been recognised as the only independent butchers in 
the uk to have a primary authority for environmental health related 
matters, who have endorsed our retail procedures. chairman’s 
statement
results and strategic progress
crawshaw group has experienced a challenging 
year but, once the causes of the declining like-for-like 
sales were established, management made rapid 
changes that clearly resonated with customers. the management 
team acted quickly and carefully to restore this 
momentum. “the performance of the business has now 
been stabilised, having restored the level  
of sales and customer numbers”
outlook
i have been very impressed by the way noel and 
the management team have carefully but swiftly 
taken the appropriate corrective actions during this 
challenging period. crawshaw group plc
annual report 
52 weeks ended 29 january 20 1 7 crawshaw group plc
annual report           52 weeks  ended 29 january 201 7
number of stores 
49 
our stores are located across yorkshire, lincolnshire, 
nottinghamshire, derbyshire, the north west and  
the midlands. average numbers of employees  
during the year
649 
the average number of employees in the year was 
30% higher than the prior year due to the increased 
number of shops. shop food hygiene
the environmental health rating range is from 0-5.
we have 34 shops on 5 stars (which is classed as very good)  
and 9 shops on 4 stars (which is classed as good). **** lfl stores are defined as stores which have been trading 
for 2 full years at the start of the financial year under 
review. at the end of the year under review 
we had 49 retail outlets across the north, north 
west and the midlands with an ambitious and 
realistic store rollout growth strategy. accelerated opening costs are defined by the group 
as the overhead investment in people, processes, 
systems and new store pre-opening costs i.e. as 
a result, we have finished the year with some really 
encouraging sales and margin momentum. as noted 
in our interim results, during our period of rapid 
growth, the number of proposition changes we asked 
customers to embrace and a combination of the well 
documented external factors caused a significant 
drop in the trading momentum of the core business 
from the end of h1 and start of h2. vision
providing safe, good quality fresh meat for  
the value conscious consumer. we provide unrivalled knowledge of meat with 
over 60 years’ experience. we source only from 
the best suppliers and all our meat is quality 
assured. costs 
directly associated with our accelerated store opening 
programme. our product range is split into two  
distinct areas:
business model operational strategy food safety
61%
39% 09 crawshaw group plc
annual report           52 weeks  ended 29 january 201 7
strategic report governance financial statements
risk management
the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the group 
include the following:
• eu trade deals and exchange rates post brexit
 the group sources approximately half of the meat 
volumes sold through the business from the eu. most of the kpis identified below are discussed in more detail in the chairman’s statement. the company has its primary listing on aim, part of the london stock exchange. further information on the activities of the business, the group strategy and an indication of the outlook for the business are presented in the chairman’s statement,  
the ceo’s statement and the strategy and business model sections of the report. • customer feedback is sought and reviewed  
 on an ongoing basis. • our food safety management systems are  
 continually reviewed and updated to ensure  
 our procedures are in line with the highest  
 standards. further to this we invest continually to ensure 
our food safety management systems are 
implemented, delivered and audited at every 
location. as the only independent retail butchers chain in 
england to have primary authority, we continue  
to work with the environmental health department  
at wakefield council. furthermore, 
we have recently introduced a new store trial of a 
£4.99 value pack under the umbrella of ‘ once it’ s gone, 
it’ s gone’ concept, consisting of great value fresh meat 
packs with value cut-through in pos labelling. with our production and distribution capability now 
set up to service up to c.100 stores, we continue to 
develop our award-winning quality homemade 
produce and broaden the range of burgers, sausages, 
meatballs, kebabs, grill sticks and mince in time for the 
spring/summer. our teams 
have reintroduced a number of store specific 
favourite dishes to the ‘butcher’ s kitchen’ menu and 
continuously test new dishes/recipes with input from 
their customers. this provides the perfect platform 
to showcase the quality of our fresh meat produce, 
presented to the customers freshly cooked and  
ready-to-go.