at the 
heart of the culture we’ve created at asos you’ll find 
authenticity, bravery and creativity. asos at a glance asos community
numbers tell part of our story. —  15.4m active customers
—  8 offices worldwide 
—  3 global warehouses
—  curation of c.850 third-party brands 
—  offering 85,000 skus
—  over 20m social media followers
—  over 1.5bn visits annually 
—  over 3,500 employees at our london hq  
and growing
—  customers in more than 230 countries and territories
—  1,600 video pieces published in the last  
12 months
—  80 minutes spent on average each month in the asos app 
—  over 60,000 pieces of content created each month
—  20 asos insiders with a collective instagram  
following of 625,000+
ceo’s strategic overview continued annual report and accounts 2017 5
…and this helps us to create and 
curate products that fashion-loving 
20-somethings love…
5.1m
followers
1.4m
followers
9.3m
users
our ambition is to be the destination for this market:  
a must-have app on people’s phones and tablets; the place 
they think of when it comes to fashion, style and beauty. strategic report
asos has more than one account with facebook, twitter 
and instagram. hassle-free delivery and returns
our mantra for delivery is faster, cheaper, 
better. we’re constantly making brave 
decisions for the good of our customers, 
and ultimately for the business – such as 
free delivery and returns, midnight cut-off 
times for orders and a year’s unlimited uk 
next-day delivery for £9.95. they 
want to know where their orders are, so 
we now have tracked services on 98% of 
global deliveries. this means we can be first to 
market with ground-breaking offerings, 
like inpost parcel lockers where people 
can drop off their returns 24/7. ceo’s strategic overview
nick beighton
chief executive officer
contents strategic report
pages 1-9
our ceo nick beighton 
explains our strategic 
approach and business model
pages 10-16
learn how we deliver  
the asos experience
our strategy
1 our guiding beliefs
2  knowing our market
4  appealing to 20-somethings
6  our business model
8  how we create value
the asos experience
10 being inspired
12 finding the look
14 getting and wearing...
16 ...and sharing contents strategic report
pages 1-9
our ceo nick beighton 
explains our strategic 
approach and business model
pages 10-16
learn how we deliver  
the asos experience
our strategy
1 our guiding beliefs
2  knowing our market
4  appealing to 20-somethings
6  our business model
8  how we create value
the asos experience
10 being inspired
12 finding the look
14 getting and wearing...
16 ...and sharing
annual report and accounts 2017 1
we give people the confidence to be 
whoever they want to be...
our guiding beliefs 
our purpose – to give people the confidence to be whoever they 
want to be – rests on some deep-rooted beliefs. we operate 
in a world that’s constantly changing – fashion, technology 
and 20-somethings themselves are in perpetual motion. —  31% of british 15- to 24-year-olds agree that  
social media is a good source of inspiration 
 for buying clothes. 1
—  millennials spend three hours a day online  
on their phones. amplifying our content so that  
we’re everywhere our customers are. we buy broad and shallow and 
turn over stock very quickly, which also creates a scarcity 
incentive for customers. asos insiders
we understand our customers because so 
many of us are asos customers. customers who engage with 
insiders shop at asos six times more than 
the average customer. ceo’s strategic overview continued
20-something consumer behaviour 2017 asos retail sales by region
the way our target age group lives and thinks creates  
enormous opportunity for our business globally. expectation is that online penetration will continue 
to increase, and we are well placed to capitalise 
on this shift in customer behaviour. asos plc 6
…we structure the business to create 
sustainable value…
our business model
our business model captures our strategy for growing and 
evolving with our market. some are 
logistical: making sure our infrastructure and technology 
allow us to continuously scale and improve. the 
apparel market is undergoing significant channel 
shift, with growth in the online apparel market 
outstripping growth in the overall market globally. in the uk, 
our home market, the online apparel market has 
grown at over twice the rate of the apparel market 
across the last five years. our retail sales growth 
has continued to surpass growth in the online 
apparel market in all of our key territories. fashion trends happen 
around the world, rather than market by market. this mindset guides everything we do. instead, we strive towards a goal that’s always 
pulling us forward. you don’t win a race by looking over your shoulder; 
you win it by focusing on the finish line and running hard. so we never take our eyes off our 20-something customers 
and where they’re going. this enables us to create truly 
amazing products and customer experiences for 
20-somethings all over the world. the huge diversity 
of our product range. the inspirational content we share. there’s a necessary restlessness here 
that gives us a powerful edge in our market. giving our customers the confidence  
to be whoever they want to be
annual report and accounts 2017 everything we do at asos starts with our purpose 
and what’s important to the people whose 
lives we touch. part of my role is to make sure our purpose is 
central to everything we do – and to give our people 
the support and freedom to achieve it. over the 
following pages, you’ll see how our purpose guides 
our strategic thinking: our view of the markets in 
which we operate; our strategy and business model; 
and our objectives, measures and risks. we believe in a 
world where people have the freedom to explore and express 
themselves without judgement, no matter who they are or where 
they’re from. strategic report
governance report financial statements
pages 17-46
read about how we’ve 
performed in 2017
pages 47-74
our governance introduced  
by chairman brian mcbride
pages 75-113
our full financial results  
and notes for the year
performance review
18 performance highlights
19 chairman’s statement
20  ceo’s operational review
24  key performance indicators
26  risk repor t
32  cfo’s financial review
36 corporate responsibility report
48 chairman’s governance overview
49 board of directors
52 corporate governance report 
57 audit committee report
60 directors’ remuneration report
72 directors’ report
74  statement of directors’ responsibility
76  independent auditors’ report to the members  
of asos plc
80  consolidated statement of total  
comprehensive income
81  consolidated statement of changes in equity
82  consolidated statement of financial position
83  consolidated statement of cash flows
84 notes to the financial statements
105  company statement of changes in equity
106  company statement of financial position
107  company statement of cash flows
108  notes to the company financial statements
111  five-year financial summary (unaudited)
113 company information asos plc 2
...we want to be the world’s number 
one destination for fashion-loving 
20-somethings...
knowing our market
our mission is to be the number one destination for fashion-
loving 20-somethings. 3
—  62% of millennials have visited youtube on  
their phones in the last month. 2
 
1 mintel, 2016
2 gwi, 2017
3 vision critical, 2016
4 rest of world
total
£1,876.5m
+34%
uk
£698.2m 
+16%
us
£261.6m 
+46%
eu
£544.1m 
+45%
row
4
£372.6m 
+52%
uk
eu
us
row annual report and accounts 2017 3
detailed market potential by region
we continue to see considerable opportunity 
for material growth across our key markets. increasing our use of artificial intelligence to 
objectives kpis (see full kpis on p24) associated risks (see full risks on p26)
 financial objectives key financial measures financial performance risks
–  generate medium-term sales 
growth at 20 to 25% to provide 
cash to invest in the business, while 
maintaining a 4% ebit margin 
– revenue 
– gross retail margin
– gross profit
– operating profit 
– ebit margin 
– profit after tax
– diluted eps
– net assets
– disruption to marketing dynamics
–  core business model not sufficiently profitable
– foreign exchange
strategic objectives key strategic measures strategic performance risks
–  inspire with great content – active customers
– total orders
– total visits
–  average order frequency
–  abv (average basket value)
– % mobile device visits
– group conversion
– net promoter score
– brand name
– entrepreneurial culture
–  curate products loved  
by 20-somethings
– brand name
–  product quality/ethical trading standards
– entrepreneurial culture
–  lead online retailing with  
bespoke technology
– digital experience
– security of customer data
–  it/infrastructure
–  it capacity/keeping pace
–  deliver through efficient,  
large-scale logistics
–  supply chain risks
ceo’s strategic overview continued annual report and accounts 2017 9
…to keep the business in robust shape 
to deliver our purpose.