richard petti
chief executive officer
14 march 2018
2.  improved sales execution: 
within our own organisation we have strengthened 
our go-to-market capabilities by recruiting market 
leading sales, pre-sales and marketing talent over 
2017 and we have invested in training to help our 
organisation successfully complete complex 
multi-stakeholder buying processes. see our markets on page 10
  our office locations
strategic report
7 ubisense group plc annual report 2017 industries:
• passenger and 
commercial vehicles 
• aerospace and defence 
• general industry 
(manufacturing and logistics)
• public transport
rtls smartspace 
smartspace solutions are based 
on a modular software platform that 
manages real-time location and 
identification data from multiple 
sources to support industrial-scale, 
mission-critical visibility and control 
applications. how we ensure return on investment
improved
• flexibility
• productivity
• quality
• customer satisfaction
reduced
• complexity of supply chain 
• operational costs
• wip (work in progress)
 and inventory costs
faster
• production times
• rework times
• revenue growth 
• decision-making
creating digital twins 
of the physical world
customer’s existing 
business systems
smartspace platform
physical world
8 ubisense group plc annual report 2017
our products sectors:
• telecoms
• cable
• gas 
• electric 
geospatial myworld 
myworld transforms the ability 
of infrastructure companies to manage 
their geographically dispersed 
assets by creating a single architecture 
for geospatial-based applications. improved
• field productivity
• network kpis
• customer service
• data quality
reduced
• operational cost
• time-to-repair
• errors and accidents
• customer attrition
faster
• time to market
• resolution times
• revenue growth
• decision-making
how we ensure return on investment
operations
myworld platform
physical world
strategic report
9 ubisense group plc annual report 2017 from “future state” 
to mission critical
the digitisation of the industrial workplace, development of digital twins and 
the growth of the industrial internet of things (iio t) has resulted in a unique set 
of opportunities for ubisense to capitalise on. we are proud to be a trusted adviser to some 
of the biggest automotive, aerospace, telecoms and utility companies in the 
world, offering in-depth knowledge of the sectors in which we operate and 
the challenges that our customers face, at every level of the organisation. i’m 
delighted that he has stepped into the role successfully, 
enabling me to resume my non-executive chairman 
role in august 2017. richard has led the business, 
clarifying the positioning and strategy of the company’s 
two product portfolios, focusing and training the sales 
force whilst we continue to build the sales capacity. the structure of the board and individual responsibilities 
remain unchanged from last year. the 
board continually reviews its composition and that 
of its committees and feels that, at this stage of the 
group’s development, the skills and mix of its 
members best serves our current needs. • 2017: strong progress was demonstrated in terms of revenue 
growth of our own products, cost management and order book
• software focus: new strategy is delivering significant wins 
across both sides of the business, with a 21% increase in 
software sales
• global growth: demand for ubisense solutions has 
increased across new centres of manufacturing such as 
turkey and thailand
• rtls smartspace product development: modularised the 
enterprise software platform to address industry 4.0 and 
emerging opportunities for industrial internet of things 
(“iio t”) applications
• geospatial myworld product development: extended the 
product portfolio to include an analytics suite that significantly 
reduces time to market for cable and telecoms network builds 
and upgrades
see our strategic focus on page 12
financial highlights
• revenue generated from ubisense’s own products increased 
by 28% and now represents over 60% of revenue (2016: 49%) 
• total revenue increased to £27.3 million (2016: £26.5 million) 
while managing a 22% planned decline in services associated 
with third party products
• operating loss reduced to £3.1 million (2016: £6.2 million) and 
adjusted ebitda profits of £0.4 million (2016: £0.3 million)
• £5.5 million (gross) raised from shareholders in november 2017 
to accelerate go-to-market and development activity
• cash balance of £9.1 million (2016: £3.5 million) and net cash 
of £6.6 million (2016: £0.2 million)
see our kpis on page 18
strategic report
1 highlights
2 chairman’s statement
4 chief executive’s statement
6 our business
8 our products
10 our markets
12 strategy
13 case studies
18 kpis
19 chief financial officer’s statement
23 principal risks and uncertainties
corporate governance
26 board of directors
28 corporate governance report
30 directors’ report
32 directors’ remuneration report
34 directors’ responsibilities statement
financial statements
36 independent auditor’s report
42 consolidated income statement
43  consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
44  consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
45  consolidated statement 
of financial position
46  consolidated statement 
of cash flows
47  notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
70 company balance sheet
71  company statement of changes 
in equity
72  notes to the company 
financial statements
ibc advisers
for more information 
view our website:
www.ubisense.net
strategic report
1 ubisense group plc annual report 2017
strategic highlights in october 2017, we led 
a successful £5.5 million 
fundraise with new and 
existing shareholders, 
highlighting some of the 
customer productivity 
improvement opportunities 
based on ubisense 
software platforms.”
“
board of directors and governance 
at the end of 2016, we welcomed richard petti 
to the board as the new chief executive officer. in total, ubisense has delivered 28% 
revenue growth for the company’s own products, 
rtls smartspace and geospatial myworld, offsetting 
the planned decline in geospatial revenues associated 
with third party products. for 2017 i am proud to report 
that not only did we break the 50% barrier but that 
we exceeded 60%. in doing so we are 
actively managing out our legacy third-party geospatial 
service business which has now been reduced 
by 22% year on year. group strategy 
in october 2017 we led a successful £5.5 million 
fundraise with new and existing shareholders, to 
allow us to capitalise on our strategy and accelerate 
our go-to-market and development activity. for the geospatial business, we will continue to 
leverage the highly specialist skills that we have in 
the team, focusing on increasing the volume of 
myworld activity. we continue to collaborate with 
local and national organisations to engage interns, 
industrial placements, apprenticeships and mentoring 
schemes, as well as being active members of local 
networks and clubs. current trading and outlook
the market opportunity for the group is excellent for 
both divisions, with software-led strategies targeting 
productivity-enhancing opportunities in industry sectors 
that are growing and investing heavily in digitisation. we ensure that 
the company adopts proper standards of corporate 
governance and that the principles of best practice 
as set out in the uk corporate governance code 
are followed where reasonably practicable. corporate social responsibility 
we are committed to corporate social responsibility 
that is tangible, practical and fits with the ethos of the 
business; this ensures that it is supported globally. together we’re 
able to tackle real-world problems that span disciplines and traditional silos. the board regularly reviews the kpis in respect of changes within periods and changes between the reporting periods. aerospace, defence 
and security
$15bn
industrial  
manufacturing
$177bn
automotive 
$65bn
transportation 
and logistics
$97bn
source: pwc 2016 “building the digital enterprise”
source: cisco vni global ip traffic forecast, 2016-2021
24% cagr 2015-2021
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
gaming  
(1%, 4%)
file sharing 
(8%, 3%)
web/data 
(18%, 11%)
ip vod  
(22%, 14.5%)
internet video  
(51%, 67.4)
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
exabytes per month
global fiber to the home growth
5% 15
15
65
177
45
55
97
243
907
195
5%
5%
5%
4%
4%
5%
5%
5%
7%
companies in every industry sector are planning substantial investments
industry 4.0 investment
(in % p.a. until 2020)
aerospace, defence & 
security
industry 4.0 investment
(in us $bn p.a. orders
bookings for own products in 2017 were £17.5 million 
(2016: £15.5 million). £10.7 million 
of new orders related to rtls smartspace 
(2016: £10.9 million), £6.8 million related to 
geospatial myworld (2016: £4.6 million). ubisense group plc annual report 2017
ubisense group plc annual report 2017
bringing 
the digital 
twin to life the power of location data
passenger 
vehicles
aerospace & 
defence
public transport
commercial 
vehicles
gas
electric
telecommunications
bringing the digital twin to life
general industry 
(manufacturing 
and logistics)
cable
we have one simple goal: to revolutionise the world’s ability to locate, 
connect and manage industrial assets, making them more productive, 
flexible, profitable and safe. our solutions are based on powerful enterprise platforms, supported 
by a range of customer-led applications, that use location to enable our 
customers to deliver a real-time digital twin of their physical operations, 
proven to drive quality, increase productivity, manage complexity and 
reduce costs. ubisense has carved out a unique place for itself in the quest to enable the 
creation of digital twins across both sides of the business. a digital twin is a 
digital replica of a physical object or process, interpreting a wide range of 
technology to create a 'living' model that supports a production process 
during its lifecycle. “
1  https://thefly . com/landingp agenews.php ?id=2508077&headline=gm;ns any ;f;vlk
ay;tm;ddaif;fcau;hmc-ihs-markit-global-auto-sales-set-to-reach-m-in-
2  https://centreforaviation. 1 http://usblogs.pwc.com/industrialinsights/2017/10/02/for-us-manufacturers-the-iiot-future-is-now-part-3/. what are the drivers for geospatial myworld? by enabling our customers to create digital twins of 
their physical environments, we are helping companies 
worldwide to improve their profitability and meet the 
most stringent quality control requirements. focusing ensures that we develop a deeper 
understanding of our chosen markets. in 2017 
we seeded our product roadmaps with extensive 
customer research which has helped us understand 
new areas where existing and prospective customers 
are facing specific problems. by increasing our focus on specific 
verticals we have been able to offer existing 
customers new product roadmaps that align with 
their challenges, and give new customers reasons 
to adopt ubisense technology. rtls smartspace 
delivering new levels of visibility and control, smartspace provides a foundation 
platform for manufacturers’ industry 4.0 strategy. geospatial myworld
myworld transforms the ability of infrastructure companies to manage 
their geographically dispersed assets by creating a single architecture 
for geospatial-based applications. results overview 
2017 results continued to demonstrate that ubisense 
has excellent products which deliver measurable 
benefits for customers as they strive for productivity 
improvements. the rtls smartspace agreement with lockheed 
martin for the f35 program highlighted the productivity 
gains that industrial customers need to make, with 
integration of location information a key success-enabling 
factor.