altyn plc
annual report 2017 “in 2017 the company
has been preparing
the groundworks to
significantly increase
production once the
additional machinery
is in place in 2018” . ▲ access portal, for the second transport decline was completed
during h2 2017. ▲ the processing plant was overhauled involving a number of
replacement parts/equipment, to ensure efficient working at
higher volume levels. it is the intention to convert the remaining
shares and interest into ordinary shares in q3 2018.
operational highlights
▲ gold poured 16,717oz, (2016: 10,970oz) a 52.4% increase
year-on-year, the production was constrained by the closure of
the processing plant for maintenance and availability of the
necessary equipment. the company is continuing to develop the
underground mine at sekisovskoye, and its
exploration asset at karasuyskoye. the site
encompasses an area of approximately 198km
2
,
and geological data purchased by the company
indicates that there are several mineralised zones,
each with the potential to contain significant
gold resources. the key highlights are documented below:
underground development & exploration
▲ the transport decline was taken from the developmental level
of 225masl down to 150masl. ▲ exploration work continued on the prospective karasuyskoye
site with extensive drilling in a number of areas on the site in
order to better define the ore bodies and grade content. altyn plc (lse: altn) is an exploration and
development company, which listed on the
standard segment of the london stock exchange
in december 2014.
to read more about altyn plc please visit our
website www.altyn.uk
at a glance
altyn’s main asset is its 100% interest in the
sekisovskoye gold mine in north east kazakhstan
with probable reserves of 2.26moz. the mining licence for sekisovskoye is valid until
18 july 2020 with an automatic pre-emptive
contractual right to extend after this period. throughout 2014, the company worked on a
competent persons report (cpr) in relation to
the sekisovskoye mine site and the results of the
findings were announced in november 2014. the
significant highlights are summarised in the
mineral resources statement on page 12. it is the
intention of the company to update the cpr in
the near future to also incorporate the site at
karasuyskoye. the
family’s shareholding currently stands at 69.8%. the potential offers were
carefully vetted and assessed to ensure that the
finance to be provided was the correct fit for the
company. based on the fundamentals and our
understanding of the asset we see the long-term
future of the company in a positive light and the
patience of shareholders will be rewarded. the board has worked hard in order to ensure that
the company is set up and restructured to be
operationally efficient and to be cost efficient. we believe our efforts are well focused in this highly prospective
land package that has obvious synergies with our current production facilities. the management are
working to ensure that the current funding being
accessed for the required investment in equipment
is at a competitive price for the shareholders and
affordable for the company. at head office the administrative costs
have been reduced by cutting office and
professional fees. in the subsidiaries rent, travel and
other overheads have been reduced. during the year the company met its commitment
to repay the balance of the ebrd loan, which was
settled in october 2017. the consequent finance
cash flows in relation to servicing of this debt will
prove useful in meeting its obligations on any new
financial liability. in 2017 an energy saving system was used in the
production facilities to reuse the heat being
generated from the compressor plant. the energy
saving system allowed the heat previously wasted
to be recycled with the facility, resulting in fuel
savings and lower gas emissions. greenhouse gas reporting
greenhouse gas emissions (ghg), are classified as
either direct or indirect and which are divided
further into scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3
emissions. direct ghg emissions are emissions from sources
that are owned or controlled by the company. chairman
kanat assaubayev
appointment
kanat assaubayev was appointed to
the board as chairman on 23 october
2013.
experience
kanat assaubayev is one of
kazakhstan’s leading entrepreneurs in
the natural resources sector. mr.
assaubayev was the first kazakh to
get a doctorate in metallurgy. his
early career was in academia where
he was the chairman of the
metallurgy and mining department
of kazakh national polytechnic
university. chief executive officer
aidar assaubayev
appointment
aidar assaubayev was appointed to
the board as chief executive officer
on 25 february 2013.
experience
aidar assaubayev is an executive
director of altyngroup kazakhstan
llp . the company
spent us$1.4m in relation to exploration costs at
karasuyskoye in the current year. ▲ capital investment of us$2.6m (2016: us$5.6m) which included
a new load-haul-dumper (lhd), and drilling machine at
sekisovskoye. financial highlights
▲ turnover increased in the year to us$21.6m (2016: us$15.9m). ▲ 16,747oz of gold sold (2016: 12,602oz), an increase of 4,145oz. the company was awarded the subsoil
exploration contract for the karasuyskoye ore
field for a 6-year term in 2016 with the right to
extend for another 4 years if there is a
commercial discovery of resources. the company’s principal shareholders, the
assaubayev family (through their investment
vehicle african resources limited), have provided
strong financial support and commitment to the
current development of the company. our focus
during the current year the underground mine and infrastructure
have been prepared to ramp up production once the necessary
equipment is in place. in the current year the focus was on the
development of access and preparation of the ore bodies. human rights
whilst the company does not have a specific
human rights policy, it does have policies such as
equal opportunities and an anti-bribery policy that
adhere to internationally proclaimed human rights
principles. this
policy reinforces our commitment to providing
equality and fairness to all in our employment and
not provide less favourable facilities or treatment
on the grounds of age, disability, gender
reassignment, marriage and civil partnership,
pregnancy and maternity, race, ethnic origin,
colour, nationality, national origin, religion or belief,
or sex and sexual orientation. we are opposed to all forms of unlawful and unfair
discrimination. to
create a working environment that promotes
dignity and respect for every employee.