chronocort
®
 is initially being developed for congenital adrenal 
hyperplasia (cah), an inherited condition where patients are unable 
to produce cortisol, leading to a poor quality of life and lower life 
expectancy. infacort
®
 is being developed to treat children who lack cortisol 
– a condition known as adrenal insufficiency (ai). strategic report
8 diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017
the diseases we are targeting
our markets
congenital adrenal 
hyperplasia (cah)
 + an orphan condition usually 
caused by deficiency of the 
enzyme 21-hydroxylase, required 
to produce the adrenal steroid 
hormone, cortisol. the block in 
the cortisol production pathway 
causes the over- production 
of male steroid hormones 
(androgens), which are 
precursors to cortisol. find out more at 
diurnal.co.uk 1  diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017
highlights
operational
 + primary endpoint successfully met in european phase iii infacort
®
 registration 
trial in paediatric ai
 + infacort
®
 paediatric use marketing authorisation (puma) submitted to the 
european medicines agency (ema)
 + first patient dosed in food matrix compatibility study intended to form part 
of us phase iii registration package for infacort
®
; expanded global patent 
estate with first us patent granted for infacort
®
 + completed first phase of establishing the company’s european commercial 
infrastructure and implemented the commercial supply chain for infacort
®
 + significant progress in the european phase iii trial of chronocort
®
 in cah, 
with over 75% of patients enrolled
financial
 + operating loss of £12.1m (2016: £7.0m) reflecting increased investment 
to support the group’s anticipated development
 + cash and cash equivalents and held to maturity financial assets at 30 june 2017 
of £19.9m (2016: £30.1m)
 + net cash used in operating activities was £10.5m (2016: £5.1m), in line with 
the board’s expectations
post-period highlights
 + in line with regulatory evaluation, submitted responses to “day 120 questions” 
received from the ema following review of the infacort
® 
puma package
 + submitted a proposed phase iii pivotal us registration study design and 
supporting data package for chronocort
®
 to the us food and drug 
administration (fda)
 + further expanded global patent estate with first us patent granted for chronocort
®
£19.9m
research and development 
expenditure (£m) 
£8.3m
2015
2017
2016
2.2
8.3
3.9
2015
2017
2016
6.1
19.9
30.1
cash and cash equivalents and held 
to maturity financial assets (£m)  “ throughout this period of 
development, diurnal has 
maintained its entrepreneurial 
and patient-centric approach.”
strategic report
2 diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017
strategy for success
diurnal aims to develop and commercialise products to address 
unmet patient needs in chronic endocrine (hormonal) diseases, 
typically where there is either no licensed medicine or where 
current treatment does not sufficiently improve patients’ health. one example of such a relationship is with glatt gmbh, 
who manufacture infacort
®
 and chronocort
®
 products. diurnal started working with glatt in 2010, initially for the 
development of formulations then moving onto clinical 
trial product manufacture, scale up and, for infacort
®
, 
progression to manufacture of commercial product 
at glatt’s facility in binzen, germany. + commenced a european phase iii clinical trial in 
february 2016. infacort
®
 and chronocort
®
 are in 
late-stage clinical development targeting indications of cortisol 
deficiency: infacort
®
 has completed a phase iii clinical trial and 
has been submitted for marketing authorisation in europe, and 
chronocort
®
 is currently undergoing a phase iii clinical trial 
for europe. building a flexible and responsive organisation
read more about chronocort®
 
on page 20 20
diurnal employees
consultants and contractors
development
 + regulatory
 + clinical operations
 + pharmacovigilance
 + medical monitoring
 + statistics
manufacturing
 + formulation
 + clinical supplies
 + analytical services
 + scale up
 + validation
commercial
 + market access
 + medical liaison
 + sales
 + pharmacovigilance
 + packaging
 + supply chain 4 diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017
chronocort
®
 + modified-release hydrocortisone preparation, initially 
targeting congenital adrenal hyperplasia in adult patients. + commencing a us phase iii clinical trial around the end 
of 2017.
strategic report
diurnal at a glance
t3 modified-release
 + a modified-release preparation of t3 (levothyroxine) 
hormone for patients suffering from hypothyroidism. + formulation feasibility work planned to commence 
during 2018.
rheumacort
®
 + modified-release hydrocortisone preparation for 
patients suffering with inflammatory diseases. diurnal has identified a number of such needs within the field of 
endocrinology, which the group believes represents a multi-billion 
dollar combined market opportunity . key elements of diurnal’s structure are:
 + a core internal team covering development, regulatory, 
manufacturing, supply chain and commercialisation, 
in addition to administration. + many of diurnal’s team work virtually, giving the group 
access to the best individuals worldwide regardless of location. despite the 
active ingredient of infacort
®
 having been available for around 
60 years, there is surprisingly no approved paediatric product. diurnal is able to gain valuable 
insights into the burden of living with these diseases through our 
interaction with physicians and patient groups. diurnal also continues to invest in its earlier-stage pipeline, with 
good progress being made with the group’s oral native testosterone 
product, which entered human clinical trials during the year, 
as well as our programmes in cushing’s disease (cortisol excess) 
and hypothyroidism. finally, i would like to thank our shareholders for their continued 
support as diurnal aims to make a real difference to patients without 
effective treatment options for chronic endocrine diseases. diurnal has had 
successful long-term relationships with many of its partners. (2014) 
2. clinical endocrinology (2017)
strategic report
diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017 6 “ we envisage a very busy 
12 months ahead, with a 
number of key events that 
will position the group well 
to achieve its vision.”
7  diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017
ceo q&a
q&a
what is your vision for diurnal? research and development expenditure for the year was £8.3m 
(2016: £3.9m). administrative expenses for the year were £3.7m (2016: £3.1m). operating loss
operating loss for the year increased to £12.1m (2016: £7.0m), 
reflecting the increased operating expenses outlined above. moving
forward
diurnal group plc
annual report and accounts 2017
diurnal group plc annual report and accounts 2017 a uk-based, globally focused 
specialty pharma company 
developing high quality products 
for the life-long treatment of 
chronic endocrine conditions. strategic report
1 highlights
2 chairman’s statement
4 diurnal at a glance
7 ceo q&a
8 our markets
10 business model and strategy
12 chief executive’s review
16 financial review
18 principal risks and uncertainties
corporate governance
21 introduction to corporate governance
22 board of directors
24 corporate governance report
28 remuneration report 
32 directors’ report 
34 statement of directors’ responsibilities
financial statements
36 independent auditor’s report
38 consolidated income statement
38  consolidated statement of comprehensive income
39  consolidated balance sheet
40 company balance sheet
41  consolidated and company statements of changes 
in equity
42 consolidated and company cash flow statements
43 notes to the financial statements
59 notice of annual general meeting
63 form of proxy
we are committed to addressing major unmet clinical and 
patient needs in hormone replacement, initially by developing 
and marketing products for the rare orphan diseases congenital 
adrenal hyperplasia (cah) and adrenal insufficiency (ai). the us remains a key market for diurnal and the group intends 
to progress the phase iii development of both infacort
®
 and 
chronocort
®
 in this region during the new financial year, whilst 
assessing the optimal commercialisation strategy, in parallel. i am 
pleased to see that the ashfield team has integrated seamlessly 
with diurnal staff and are rapidly implementing our launch plans. board
the board comprises seven directors. we have two 
executive directors, a non-executive chairman, one independent 
non-executive director and two further non-executive directors. membership at 30 june 2017
 + john goddard (chairman)
 + peter allen
 + alan raymond
 + sam williams
meetings held in 2017
4
nomination committee
key responsibilities
the nomination committee assists the board in reviewing 
the structure, size and composition of the board including 
appointments to the executive management teams. membership at 30 june 2017
 + peter allen (chairman)
 + john goddard
 + alan raymond
 + sam williams
meetings held in 2017
1
remuneration committee
key responsibilities
the remuneration committee recommends the group’s policy 
on remuneration and determines the levels of remuneration for 
the executive management t eam and the chairman. these discussions 
have helped, and continue to help, shape the group’s development 
plans, such that we can deliver products that not only address 
important unmet needs and improve patients’ lives but also have 
a positive impact on healthcare budgets. investing for development and value creation
during the year, diurnal continued to make significant clinical 
development progress with its late-stage pipeline products, as 
well as establishing commercial operations in anticipation of 
future product launches. the group has put in place strong commercial 
infrastructure in europe to support the planned launch of 
infacort
®
, for which the group anticipates receiving market 
authorisation in europe towards the end of 2017 , at which stage 
development costs will begin to be capitalised in accordance 
with international accountancy standards (ias). the group plans 
to leverage its investment in the commercial team through the 
timely introduction of chronocort
®
 following completion of 
the ongoing european phase iii clinical trial and regulatory review, 
expected around the end of 2019. the group also remains 
mindful of external growth opportunities and continues to 
assess endocrinology assets that fit within its disease focus. we estimate that there are over 60,000 patients suffering from 
cah across the us and europe, which we believe translates to 
a total potential market of over $400m. + the condition is estimated to 
affect a total of approximately 
71,000 patients across europe 
(51,000) and the us (20,000), 
with approximately 405,000 
in the rest of the world. the 
european and us markets 
are estimated to be worth a 
combined $0.5bn annually . addison’s 
disease is estimated to affect 
approximately 64,000 sufferers 
in europe and 16,000 in the us 
with approximately 746,000 
sufferers in the rest of the world.