annual report and accounts 2017
accounts strategic report corporate governance
we have made considerable  
progress across the business  
over the last 12 months and  
delivered a solid financial 
performance in volatile and  
uncertain market conditions. we have made considerable progress 
across the business over the last 12 
months and delivered a solid ﬁnancial 
performance in volatile and uncertain 
market conditions. annual report and accounts 2017
strategic report
established over 140 years ago in scotland,  
we are a ftse 250 business operating across the  
uk and with a growing international presence. annual report and accounts 2017
strategic report
a strong platform  
for the future
the announcement of a soft drinks 
sugar tax in the chancellor’s budget  
in march 2016, and the devaluation of 
sterling following the uk’s referendum 
vote to leave the european union in 
june, added additional external 
headwinds in a soft drinks market 
already impacted by price deﬂation. deﬁnitions and relevant reconciliations are provided in the glossary on pages 130 to 132. 
the term “underlying” has been used to improve comparability between the 52 week reporting period ended 28 january 2017 and the 53 weeks 
ended 30 january 2016. in the 53 week reporting period ended 30 january 2016 the group received non-recurring income associated to the 
termination of the orangina franchise and incurred one-ož transaction fees associated to corporate development activities including funkin limited. chairman’s introduction
*  items marked with an asterisk are non-gaap measures. deﬁnitions and relevant 
reconciliations are provided in the glossary on pages 130 to 132. 
sugars per 100ml by the autumn of 2017 
is an extremely positive demonstration 
of how the business is responding with 
both pace and commitment. the ﬁnal dividend is payable 
on 9 june 2017 to shareholders on the 
register of members at the close of 
business on 12 may 2017. the ex-dividend 
date is 11 may 2017.
share repurchase programme 
given the strength of the balance sheet 
and the cash generative nature of the 
business, the board has decided to return 
up to £30m to shareholders via an 
on-market share repurchase programme. we will continue  
to seek opportunities to grow our 
business and i believe we are well  
placed to continue to deliver consistent 
long-term shareholder value. we make it our business to understand 
what our consumers want. employing around 900 people  
across 10 uk locations, we are  
proud to be a sustainable business  
that listens to our consumers, builds 
lasting customer relationships, takes 
care of our employees, gives something 
back to our communities and works to 
minimise our environmental impact. despite these macro external inﬂuences, 
the business has retained a clear focus  
on the execution of its strategy and in 
particular on internal improvement actions. we build 
great tasting brands that people love, 
oering them choice and enjoyment. excellence  
in taste
our business and brands
rubicon 
spring 
launched 
bottles sold: 
7.6 million
irnbru 
xtra 
launched 
equivalent number  
of cans sold: 
20 million
rubicon 
light & fruity 
launched 
sugar content  
reduced by: 
50% 03
a.g. barr p.l.c. whether it’s our iconic irn-bru, 
launched in 1901 and still going  
strong today, our market leading 
rubicon exotic fruit juice drinks,  
or our pure, clear scottish spring water 
strathmore, our brands ožer people 
a choice of great tasting products and 
bring exciting innovation to the market. but we’re not just about soft drinks – 
with the addition of funkin we have 
moved into the cocktail mixer segment, 
broadening and strengthening our 
portfolio with a unique and exciting 
market leading brand in a growing market. unquenchable 
thirst for 
improvement
a.g. barr p.l.c. 02
a.g. barr p.l.c. 05
a.g. barr p.l.c. 07
a.g. barr p.l.c. roger white
chief executive
net cash 
£9.7m
earnings per share
30.78p
+3.9%
full year dividend per share*
14.40p
+8.0%
*  items marked with an asterisk are non-gaap measures. omj 
launched 
sales exceeded: 
£1 million
funkin 
performing 
well 
sales up: 
27%
snapple 
relaunch 
sales up: 
20% 04
a.g. barr p.l.c. – proﬁt before tax increased 4.4% on 
the prior year to £43.1m. – statutory proﬁt before tax and 
exceptional items* increased 2.7%  
on the prior year to £42.4m. annual report and accounts 2017
accounts strategic report corporate governance
at our core, we are a successful  
branded soft drinks business, building  
a diverse and dižerentiated portfolio  
of great tasting brands that people love. enhancing our portfolio, we also operate 
long-term successful partnerships, 
complementing our own range of 
products with global brands rockstar 
and snapple in the uk and beyond. innovation has been a key strategic 
focus across the year and the launches 
of irn-bru xtra and rubicon spring 
in particular, both no added sugar 
products, have proven successful. our key partnerships with rockstar and 
dr pepper snapple group continued to 
progress, complementing our own 
portfolio both in the uk and increasingly 
on an international basis, where we have 
delivered further growth, extending our 
international footprint and our franchise 
territory agreements. unquenchable 
thirst for value value
unquenchable 
value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value
unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable unquenchable  01
a.g. barr p.l.c. – strong cash ﬂow resulted in a net 
cash position of £9.7m. ebitda (deﬁned as proﬁt on 
ordinary activities before tax  
less exceptional items, adding 
back interest, depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment) 
divided by revenue. gross proﬁt divided by revenue. responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly responsibly  25
a.g. barr p.l.c. annual report and accounts january 2017
a.g. barr p.l.c. annual report and accounts january 2017
improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement strategic report  
performance at a glance 01
our business and brands 02
chairman’s introduction 04
business model 06
chief executive’s review 08
strategy 12
key performance indicators 13
strategy in action 14
financial review 26
risk management 31
corporate governance  
board of directors 36
directors’ report 38
corporate governance report 43
audit committee report 48 
directors’ remuneration report 51
directors’ statement 77
accounts  
 independent auditor’s  
report to the members  
of a.g. barr p.l.c. only 78
consolidated income statement 81
 statement of  
comprehensive income 82
statement of changes in equity 83
statements of financial position 85
cash flow statements 86
notes to the accounts 87
review of trading results 129
glossary 130
notice of annual general meeting 133
auditor’s statement  
of circumstances 142
we are a growth driven, branded 
consumer goods business, delivering 
long-term sustainable value. revenue
£257.1m
(0.6)%
proﬁt before tax
£43.1m
+4.4%
ebitda margin*
20.1%
+0.6%
see page 14 for our strategy in action€
strategic report
i am pleased to present a.g. barr 
p.l.c.’s annual report for the year  
ended 28 january 2017. the report 
provides an overview of our business 
model and a comprehensive review of 
our strategy, its execution, our ﬁnancial 
performance and information on how 
we govern our business.