although the market is at the early development 
stage, hayward tyler’s submersible motor expertise is ideal to develop reliable submersible 
generator technologies for wave and tidal schemes. hayward tyler provides reliable motor solutions to the 
topside and subsea offshore oil and gas market whilst 
peter brotherhood offers offshore power generation units 
including those on fpso, flng and fsru. hayward tyler provides a complete range of submersible 
seawater lift and firewater motors to customers as part of 
an integrated pump package. it is also driven by the need to find an alternative to oil-filled subsea 
systems and electro-submersible pumps in-well artificial lift systems with their inherent 
constraints and reliability concerns. htg is focused on 
delivering performance-critical solutions for the most demanding requirements to meet current 
and future global energy needs. each of these businesses has an enviable reputation and strong brand within 
their chosen market niches. the group through both hayward tyler and peter brotherhood 
has real, practical experience to provide technically reliable and cost-effective solutions to our 
customers through original equipment manufacturing and aftermarket services. with over 500 
employees globally and facilities in the uk, usa, china and india, htg has world-class skills 
in design, engineering, manufacturing, servicing and support and a proven reputation for 
providing innovative, reliable engineered solutions. further details of the trading performance are set out in the chief executive’s business 
review and the financial review. risk management 
please refer to the section on principal risks and uncertainties for details of how we manage 
risk. introduction 
when i wrote in last year’s review that “provided recent economic and political uncertainty 
does not affect general industrial activity, the outlook for htg is positive” i perhaps did not 
appreciate how prescient that comment might be. to align the interests of senior management with those of shareholders, the remuneration of 
the executive directors is linked to a number of these kpis. contents 
key headlines 
our vision 
our strategy for growth 
our strategy in action 
our markets 
chairman’s statement 
chief executive’s business review 
kpis 
financial review 
principal risks and uncertainties 
corporate social responsibility 
  
   hayward tyler group plc 
financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017  
   
3 
 
key headlines 
 revenue was £62.7 million (fy2016: £61.6 million) 
 underlying gross profit margin was 43% (fy2016: 41%) 
 trading
1
 ebitda was £5,000 (fy2016: £7.2 million) 
 trading
1
 loss before tax was £3.7 million (fy2016: profit of £5.1 million) 
 loss per share was 7.07 pence (fy2016: earnings per share 4.89 pence) 
 capital expenditure was £6.4 million (fy2016: £11.6 million) 
 net debt was £22.1 million (fy2016: £8.6 million) 
 order intake was £68.3 million (fy2016: £61.4 million) 
 order book was £49.8 million (fy2016: £36.1 million) 
 
 
1 trading represents the underlying performance of the group 
 
   hayward tyler group plc 
financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017  
   
4 
 
our vision 
energy in motion 
 
with the world’s population forecast to exceed 9 billion people by 2050 demand for food, 
clean water and energy continues to grow. we increased the run rate on an annualised basis to over £80.0 million of 
revenues and over £8.0 million of ebitda and achieved a record order book entering the 
current fiscal year. development and future growth 
we continued to invest in research and development (“r&d”) during the year spending £0.6 
million of which £0.3 million was capitalised. cash conversion: ratio of (a) trading ebitda plus movement in working capital to (b) trading ebitda. compared with 2.7% p.a. the 
overall share is currently about 40%. this represented an 
increase in both hayward tyler of 36% (from £26.7 million to £36.2 million) and peter 
brotherhood of 45% (from £9.4 million to £13.6 million). gross profit %: gross profit margin represents ratio of (a) revenue less cost of sales to (b) revenue. markets we serve 
power generation: oil & gas: water & industrial: defence: 
fossil upstream water submarine fleet 
nuclear  downstream industrial  
renewables 
(including solar/ 
hydro/ tidal/ wind) 
 chemical  
 
hayward tyler 
with a pedigree stretching back over 200 years hayward tyler is a market leader in the 
design, manufacture and servicing of performance-critical motors and pumps for the harshest 
of environments. www.haywardtyler.com  
fy2017 revenue £46.5 million 
fy2017 gross profit margin 10% 
 
peter brotherhood 
peter brotherhood has been providing engineering solutions for 150 years and is a market 
leader in the design, manufacture and servicing of performance-critical steam turbines, turbo 
gen-sets, compressors, gear boxes and combined heat and power systems. power generation – centralised – fossil fuels (coal and oil) 
key market drivers include the continued pursuit of larger, more efficient coal-fired plant and 
use of economisers to enhance the economic viability of ageing plants while also helping to 
meet emission targets. with coal plants typically operating for 40+ 
years (from an original design life of 25 years) opportunities arise from renewing and 
upgrading of equipment to extending the operating life of existing power plants. www.htg.global  
 
who we are 
htg is the name of the group which includes both the hayward tyler and peter brotherhood 
businesses. hayward tyler’s bcp technology is readily adaptable to the csp market. our hayward tyler colchester facility holds the asme b&pv ‘n’, ‘npt’ and ‘na’ stamps as 
well as the ‘ns’ certificate, all key accreditations in the nuclear market that represent 
significant barriers to entry for other businesses. hayward tyler luton continues its development as a strategic supplier to the uk nuclear new 
build programme having achieved ‘fit for nuclear’ in fy2017 and working towards iso19443 
in fy2018. htg is responding to these challenges. we are constantly driving operating 
efficiencies both internally and in supply chain partnerships – to deliver against our key 
metrics of right first time (“rft”) and on time in full (“otif”) to our customers. hayward tyler is currently working in 
partnership with several universities and private developers to position itself as an industry 
leader in this growing technology space and its recent announcement on the c-gen neptune 
generator project is testament to this. the hinkley point c project is now fully funded and has begun construction whereas 
the subsequent projects are at various stages of approval and planning. hayward tyler group plc  
 
report & accounts for the  
year ended 31 march 2017 
 
 
 
“poised for growth” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  hayward tyler group plc 
financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017  
   
 
 
hayward tyler group plc (“htg”) 
at a glance 
 
htg includes both the hayward tyler and peter brotherhood businesses, together providing 
over 350 years of engineering experience, heritage and pedigree. www.peterbrotherhood.com  
fy2017 revenue £16.2 million 
fy2017 gross profit margin 34% 
 
£62.7m 
group revenue 
>80% 
revenue from outside uk 
7 
locations globally 
526 
employees globally
1
 
world-class products 
technology-led engineering 
diverse end markets 
global reach 
 
1 average number in fy2017   hayward tyler group plc 
financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017  
   
 
 
htg 
poised for growth 
 
in fy2017, htg experienced a mixed performance against challenging market conditions. however, the group is now poised for growth based on entering 
fy2018 with a record order book, significant investments already made and the proposed 
acquisition by avingtrans plc. record order book 
the group had a record order book of £49.8 million at 31 march 2017 (fy2016: £36.1 million) 
 
investment in the business 
the group has completed the major investment in its world-class centre of excellence for 
specialist motor manufacture, has continued to rebuild accreditations and customer 
relationships at peter brotherhood and further invested in the continuous improvement of its 
people, processes and products 
 
acquisition by avingtrans plc 
the proposed acquisition of the company by avingtrans plc gives the group access to a 
strong balance sheet and a supportive shareholder base to be able to continue to invest in 
both hayward tyler and peter brotherhood and support the group’s longer term growth plans  hayward tyler group plc 
financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017  
   
1 
 
 
contents  
strategic report  
key headlines 3 
our vision 4 
our strategy for growth 5 
our strategy in action 6 
our markets 7 
chairman’s statement 16 
chief executive’s business review 18 
kpis 23 
financial review 25 
principal risks and uncertainties 31 
corporate social responsibility 36 
governance  
board of directors 43 
corporate governance 46 
audit committee report 50 
directors’ report on remuneration 53 
report of the directors 58 
statement of directors’ responsibilities 60 
independent auditor’s report 61 
financial statements  
statements of financial position 63 
consolidated income statement 65 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 66 
consolidated statement of changes in equity 67 
company statement of changes in equity  68 
cash flow statement 69 
notes to the financial statements 70 
contacts 124 
glossary of terms 125  hayward tyler group plc 
financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017  
   
2 
 
section 1 
strategic report 
 
an overview of our performance in fy2017, a focus on our strategy and a review of the 
businesses underpinning our strategy. revenue was too low to cover the fixed cost base that had been geared-up to service 
significantly higher revenue. from an energy perspective this is creating even 
greater challenges across all energy sources and a growing demand for clean energy too. we call this energy in motion. power generation oil & gas water & industrial defence 
  
  
fossil 
nuclear 
renewables 
(including solar / 
hydro / tidal / wind) 
 
upstream 
downstream 
chemical 
municipal water 
general industrial 
uk submarine 
programme 
fy2017  
order intake: 72% 
revenue: 70% 
fy2017  
order intake: 15% 
revenue: 15% 
fy2017  
order intake: 12% 
revenue: 11% 
fy2017  
order intake: 1% 
revenue: 4% 
 
energy overview 
market studies project an increasing demand for 
energy: 
 
 world gdp is projected to almost 
double in the period to 2035 driven by 
fast-growing emerging economies, as 
more than two billion people are lifted 
from low incomes;  
 this rising prosperity is predicted to 
drive an increase in global energy 
demand by around 30%;  
 the fuel mix is expected to continue to 
adjust, although oil and gas together 
with coal, remain dominant;  
 renewables, including nuclear, is 
predicted to provide half of the additional 
energy required out to 2035;   
 gas is projected to grow more quickly than 
oil and coal, led by us shale gas and a 
rapid expansion of lng is likely to lead to a globally integrated gas market, anchored 
by us gas prices;  
 global coal consumption looks set to peak, as the continuing reform of china’s 
economy causes growth in its demand for coal (and energy) to slow sharply, although 
china is expected to remain the largest growth market for energy;  
 renewables are projected to be the fastest growing fuel source, quadrupling over the 
next 20 years, supported by continuing gains in competitiveness; and  
source: bp energy outlook 2017 edition, january 2017  hayward tyler group plc 
financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017  
   
8 
 
 the world economy is expected to continue to electrify, with nearly two-thirds of the 
increase in global energy going into the power sector.