l ocation s
210
employee s
3,745
l arge st hi re fleet 
and a sset b readth 
and depth in the 
indu st ry
safe st hi re provide r  
in the indu st ry 
ba sed on accident 
and injur y rate s
delivering our strategy 04 speedy hire plc annual report and accounts 2017
chairman’s st ate ment
solid platform  
for the future
overview 
i am pleased to report that the actions 
undertaken by management have 
enabled us to report substantially 
improved results; revenue and profits 
have increased, the hire fleet has been 
reduced, utilisation rates increased, and 
net debt
1
 has fallen significantly. the hire fleet reduced by 11.4% to 
£194.8m as a result of targeted disposals 
and improved asset utilisation, whilst  
net debt
1
 fell significantly to £71.4m 
(2016: £102.6m). acquisition
on 19 december 2016 we announced 
the acquisition of the brand, business 
and assets of lloyds british testing 
limited (‘lloyds british’) from the 
administrator, pwc. the dividend will be paid on 11 august 
2017 to shareholders on the register  
at close of business on 7 july 2017.
board 
david shearer joined the board as a  
non-executive director on 9 september 
2016 and was subsequently appointed  
to the audit and nomination committees. our values
  safe – the first priority in everything we do
  as one – working together to collectively  
achieve our goals
 innovative – to continuously improve
  driven – to deliver a first class customer experience
this approach to the way we do business will enable 
us to deliver sustainable growth through improved 
profitability and roce. in this report we highlight the progress we have made 
against our key strategic themes. the 
business has been stabilised and we have 
created a solid platform for the future. the 
group has a strong balance sheet, and 
substantial headroom with which to  
grow organically or through targeted 
value enhancing acquisitions in order  
to strengthen our market position. during the year we 
were pleased to be awarded our third 
rospa gold medal, were accredited to 
achilles building confidence with a 5-star 
rating for the fourth year running, and 
have maintained our 5-star achilles risqs 
accreditation for the second year running. our vehicle fleet is accredited to fors 
gold standard nationally. russell down
chief executive what we do
t ool hire. the latest hand 
tools and accessories, certified 
for compliance. return on capital 
employed
2
, a key measure, increased  
by 140.6% to 7.7%; excluding disposals 
roce
2
 was 8.4% (2016: 3.0%). dividend
the board is recommending a final 
dividend of 0.67 pence per share, an 
increase of 67.5%. if approved at the 
forthcoming annual general meeting  
the total dividend for the year would be 
1.00 pence per share (2016: 0.70 pence). results
revenue increased by 12.2% to 
£369.4m (2016: £329.1m). enhancing 
customer  
experience
speedy hire plc
annual report and accounts 2017 speedy is focussed on enhancing  
our customers’ experience. the acquisition cost of £3.8m was paid in 
cash in full on completion; the business 
is now fully integrated and is enhancing 
speedy’s overall offering in the specialist 
lifting market. jan åstrand
chairman 06 speedy hire plc annual report and accounts 2017
chief execut ive’s review
overview
i am pleased to report that our financial 
and operational performance has 
improved significantly this year. we will continue to drive this measure 
through optimising our hire fleet by 
only purchasing assets which provide 
the right return, and disposing of lower 
utilised assets or procuring these 
through our partnered services offering. overhead costs have 
been tightly controlled with further 
savings realised during the year, partially 
offset by bonuses payable due to the 
good results. we have substantially improved our 
efficiency and roce
2
 this year and  
i am confident we can deliver further 
profitable growth. during the 
year we have improved the customer 
experience, increased asset availability 
and restructured our sales activities. on 
a constant currency basis, and excluding 
the impact of planned disposals, revenue 
increased by 6.7%. we provide safe, reliable hire equipment 
and services to enable the successful 
delivery of customer projects. we are more than just equipment providers, 
we are partners in the successful delivery  
of our customers’ projects because while  
our equipment may be temporarily on hire,  
our commitment is permanent. our mission
our mission is to provide safe, reliable hire  
equipment and services to enable successful  
delivery of customer projects. revenue
£369.4m
key figures
our priority is to provide 
a first class customer 
experience so that 
everything we do is 
focussed on the customer. we are creating a culture in which  
all staff are empowered to make 
appropriate decisions. this 
feedback gives us the opportunity to 
respond immediately to any issues that 
may arise. safety and sustainability
we have an industry leading approach to 
safety and sustainability and continue  
to promote safety related topics with our 
customers through our ‘intelligent safety’ 
campaign. safety and  
sustainability
we are industry leaders in 
safety and sustainability. explanatory notes:
1 see note 19 to the financial statements. explanatory notes:
1 see note 11 to the financial statements. 2 see note 19 to the financial statements. 3 see note 9 to the financial statements. visit our website to find out more 
speedyservices.com/investors strategic report governance financial statements corporate information
speedy hire plc annual report and accounts 2017 01
read about the significant 
improvements across all financial and 
operational performance measures. strategic report
speedy at a glance 02
chairman’s statement 04
chief executive’s review  06
business model and strategy  10
enhancing customer experience 12
innovation and differentiation 14
cultivating relationships 16
empowered culture 18
safety and sustainability 20
key performance indicators 24
financial review 26
principal risks and uncertainties 30
governance 
chairman’s letter to shareholders 35
directors’ report 36
statement of directors’  
responsibilities 39
board of directors 40
corporate governance 42
audit committee report  48
nomination committee report  52
remuneration report  54
independent auditor’s report  70
financial statements 
consolidated income statement 76
consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 77
consolidated balance sheet 78
consolidated statement of  
changes in equity  79
consolidated cash flow statement 80
reconciliation of net debt 81
notes to the financial statements  82
company balance sheet 112
company statement of  
changes in equity 113
company cash flow statement 114
notes to the company  
financial statements  115
five-year summary 119
corporate information 
shareholder information 120
registered office and advisers 121
enhancing customer experience
chief executive’s review empowered culture
12
18 06
read mo re read mo re
read mo re 02 speedy hire plc annual report and accounts 2017
 “
at speedy, we all share the same 
vision: to help make our customers’ 
business as successful as it can be. it’s why we do what we do and what 
motivates us every single day.”
russell down
chief executive
enhancing the  
customer experience
speedy at a g l ance
our vision
our vision is to become the best company in our  
sector to do business with and the best to work for. n ational b rand 
and cove rage strategic report governance financial statements corporate information
speedy hire plc annual report and accounts 2017 03
01 c ustomer experience
02 innovation
03 c ustomer relationships
04 safety
  read more about our strategy on  
pages 12 to 23
our strategy
our strategy focusses on three fundamental themes: 
  providing a first class customer experience so that 
everything we do is focussed on the customer
  innovating and doing things differently, and better 
than our competitors
  cultivating strong client relationships
underpinning these is our commitment to keeping  
our people and customers safe, and creating a culture 
in which all staff are empowered to make appropriate 
decisions.