rolling out fun 
nationwide
annual report and accounts 2017
hollywood bowl group plc annual report and accounts 2017 amf bowling
bowlplex
hollywood bowl
hemel hempstead support ofﬁce
hollywood 
bowl
our secondary  
brand is
centres to be 
refurbished & 
re-branded as
11
43
rolling out fun nationwide
where we operate
our centres are typically  
co-located with cinema and 
casual dining sites in the 
midst of large, high footfall, 
edge-of-town leisure and 
retail developments. our games keepers maintain our arcades 
to high operational standards and keep them 
well-stocked with the latest must-have prizes. our attentive lane hosts can take customer 
orders and are complemented by licensed 
bars offering a wide range of branded soft 
and alcoholic drinks and coffees. we cater for every budget too, from our 
standard menu, primarily in amf centres, 
to a great value, higher-end food offering 
with our new hollywood diner menu. our proprietary scoring system promotes 
healthy competition by allowing us to send 
personalised and engaging post-bowling 
communications to our customers detailing 
their scores and strikes. our talent 
management and incentive programmes 
attract, retain and nurture the best people
diversified revenue streams
bowling accounts for half of group revenue. good corporate governance continues to 
be a focus for the board as we complete our 
evolution from private equity to plc ownership. he has completed a thorough 
induction programme and is providing support 
and new perspective, as well as giving challenge, 
to an already high-performing board. the success of the bowlplex rebrands reinforces 
what an excellent investment bowlplex was. the strength of our 
culture delivers industry-leading performance 
in financial measures as well as the softer, 
subjective measures of customer experience 
and satisfaction. our ability to adapt and modify has kept us 
relevant and accurate in delivering customer 
satisfaction, measured by our net promotor 
score and our own customer engagement 
programme. this success can be seen by 
the continual improvement in both measures 
of customer satisfaction. sb. sb. sb. sb. we achieved revenue of £114.0m, representing 
growth of 8.8 per cent on fy2016, and 3.5 per 
cent on a like for like basis (lfl). through all of this, we have seen group adjusted 
ebitda grow to £33.4m, a 13.7 per cent 
increase over the prior year, while operating 
profits grew by 54.4 per cent. game volumes in the year were up 3.1 per cent 
lfl (and 8.5 per cent total). mobile accounted for 54 per cent 
of our online revenue. we inspire customers to become loyal fans 
of our brands by providing a fun-filled, safe 
and great value entertainment experience 
that surprises and delights them on every visit. we build our teams with the most energetic 
and engaging individuals who share our 
values and are proud to be part of our culture. in return, we provide them with a fun and 
supportive environment with opportunities 
to develop a rewarding career. we run our business for the long term 
and we drive value for our shareholders by 
delivering our growth plans in an effective 
and profitable way. our business
 the uk’s largest ten-pin  
bowling operator
 £114m revenue
 58 high-quality centres
1
 amusement areas
 american-themed diners
 licensed bars
 the complete family  
entertainment experience
1 includes dagenham which was acquired on  
18 september 2017 but did not open until 4 october 2017. strategic report
chairman’s statement  16
chief executive officer’s review  18
market overview  22
our business model  26
our strategy at a glance  28
strategy in action  30
key performance indicators  34
principal risks  36
financial review 39
sustainability  43
governance
chairman’s introduction  47
board of directors  48
corporate governance report  50
report of the nomination committee  54
report of the audit committee  56
chair of the remuneration committee’s  
annual statement  60
directors’ remuneration policy  62
annual report on remuneration 64
directors’ report  70
statement of directors’ responsibilities  73
independent auditor’s report  74
financial statements
consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income  79
consolidated statement of financial position  80
consolidated statement of changes in equity  81
consolidated statement of cash flows  82
notes to the financial statements  83
company statement of financial position  109
company statement of changes in equity  110
company statement of cash flows  110
notes to the company financial statements  111
company information  116
hollywood bowl group is the uk’s largest 
ten-pin bowling operator. contents
annual report and accounts 2017 1 let the good 
times roll
2 hollywood bowl group plc ten-pin bowling is for everyone. bowling
3 annual report and accounts 2017 4 hollywood bowl group plc bowling
highlights
 rolling out fun nationwide – over 13 million 
games bowled in fy2017
 vip lanes now available in 40 centres 
 new version of our proprietary scoring system now 
in 24 centres
 dynamic pricing introduced – flexible pricing based 
on demand and incentives based on booking lead-time
 
digital vip lane concept – with action replays – introduced 
at our derby centre
 improved games per stop and ‘pins on strings’ system 
on trial in three centres
50.6% of revenue
5 annual report and accounts 2017 a winning 
combination
6 hollywood bowl group plc we make things playful with fun-filled family 
focused arcades combining traditional and 
cutting-edge games. amusements
7 annual report and accounts 2017 8 hollywood bowl group plc games
amusements
highlights
 over 850 new machine installations with £2.7m capital 
investment in fy2017 ensures that we are the ‘go-to’ family 
amusement centre
 ‘play for prizes’ now in 37 centres
 creation of a new hollywood bowl currency with cashless 
amusements on trial in three centres
 virtual reality zones on trial in three centres
 enhanced supplier commercial terms have improved 
margins year-on-year
21.6% of revenue
9 annual report and accounts 2017  com pleti ng th e
10 hollywood bowl group plc bowling works up an appetite and a thirst 
to match, so we lay on a great choice of 
quality food and drink for our customers – 
be they a family out for the weekend or a 
corporate team on an office night out. we are the uk’s market 
leader and the game’s biggest fans. there is something for everyone – whether 
it’s air hockey and basketball hoops, games 
with prizes or the latest state-of-the-art 
video games. the board recruited an additional independent 
ned, ivan schofield, and i was delighted to 
welcome ivan to our board with effect from 
1 october. a key component of our success is our executive 
leadership team which has done an outstanding 
job during fy2017. absolutely! q.  will you ever look beyond bowling? q.  what impact will brexit have on 
hollywood bowl? refurbishment and rebrand 
programme
ten full refurbishments were completed 
in fy2017 including the rebranding of four 
bowlplex and two amf centres (tunbridge 
wells, cwmbran, portsmouth, brighton, tolworth 
and ashford). we opened three centres in fy2017, two 
of which – southampton and derby – were 
organic openings, while the london o2 was 
an acquisition. hollywood bowl southampton opened as 
part of a new hammerson leisure development. acquisitions 
in june, we refurbished and rebranded brooklyn 
bowl at the london o2, taking a three-year 
management contract to operate the venue.