– accelerated store refurbishment programme 
with 47% of the uk estate trading under  
the new brand identity by period end. on track to complete remainder of uk  
estate by end of 2018. – further progress made in reducing number  
of underperforming stores:
 – net nine closures in the uk, reducing  
the estate to 426 stores, a space reduction 
of 1.9%. – in rest of europe, store base increased  
by a net one but trading space was reduced 
by 2.8%. much of our 
time has been spent overseeing the 
implementation of multiple strategic 
initiatives and providing an appropriate 
level of challenge to the executive on the 
group’s response to the tougher trading 
conditions. delivering 
a turnaround in these conditions is not 
easy, but we continue to believe that the 
strategic plan we are implementing will 
ensure the business better capitalises 
on its market leading position and 
provides resilience against weaker 
trading conditions. not quite in terms of profit delivery for 
the reasons i outline above – but yes, in 
terms of confirming a very clear strategic 
direction and our progress with the 
operational turnaround. strategic report continued
has brexit de-railed your 
recovery plans? annual report and accounts 2017
carpetright plc annual report and accounts 2017 index 
strategic report
introduction 1
at a glance 2
chairman’ s statement 3
our market 4
our business model 5
our strategic priorities 6
chief executive’ s review 10
in conversation with the chief executive 14
measuring our performance 16
financial review 17
managing risk 24
principal risks and uncertainties 26
corporate responsibility 28
directors’ report
board of directors 30
corporate governance 32
audit committee report 35
directors’ remuneration report 39
other information 61
financial statements
consolidated income statement 65
consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 65
statements of change in equity 66
balance sheets 67
statements of cash flow 68
notes to the financial statements 69
group five-year financial summary 102
independent auditors’ report 103
shareholder information
calendar 109
advisers 109 carpetright is europe’s leading specialist retailer of floorcoverings 
and beds in the domestic home improvement market. more online
this report, along with our other 
announcements and stakeholder 
information, can be found on our 
corporate website: carpetright.plc.uk
this strategic report was 
approved by the board of directors 
on 26 june 2017 and was signed 
on its behalf by jeremy sampson 
– company secretary and 
legal director. strategic report shareholder information financial statements directors’ report
1 www.carpetright.plc.uk | at a glance
strategic progress
 – year of significant operational change and 
investment – strategic plan on track. 2 | annual report and accounts 2017 chairman’s statement
bob ivell
chairman
overview
in a challenging year characterised by 
both political and economic turbulence, 
i am pleased to report that the group 
made good progress in implementing 
the programme of strategic initiatives to 
extend the appeal of the carpetright brand 
and to address the significant legacy 
issues within its property estate. we’re honest and straightforward
we care about customers and colleagues
we make it easy
details of our strategy, including a strategic update, can be found on pages 10 to 13 of this report. with this in mind, we know we 
need to continue to innovate as we 
strive to differentiate ourselves from 
the competition. while there is much left to do, we made 
tangible progress across the year in 
key areas such as product offering, 
promotional effectiveness, brand 
perception, store standards and customer 
service. our people
on behalf of the board, i would like to 
thank the more than 3,000 colleagues 
working in our stores, distribution centre 
and support offices for their hard work 
and dedication across the year. our primary business objective is to help customers transform 
their homes with our products and services delivered through an 
integrated multi-channel proposition. however, 
the internet is playing an ever-increasing 
role in pre-purchase behaviour, becoming 
a vital research tool for many customers, 
and the rapid growth of smart phone 
and tablet use underlines the importance 
of having an effective and integrated 
digital proposition. product ranges
whilst carpet remains the dominant 
product category in floorcoverings, we 
have historically over-indexed on carpet 
product ranges relative to wider market 
preferences. customers
we transform our 
customers’ homes with 
high quality, inspirational 
products and great value
colleagues
we provide a rewarding 
work environment which 
is fair, open, and provides 
opportunities to develop
shareholders
we are re-building the 
business to deliver long-
term growth for the benefit 
of our shareholders
suppliers
we work collaboratively 
to bring great products to 
market 
value creation
confidence in dealing with a retailer 
who provides an enjoyable shopping 
experience, has a good reputation and 
in whom they can trust
offers a great range of floorcoverings to 
choose from within their budget
understand the value and quality of 
service they expect
recognise that convenience and 
accessibility play a role
we are honest and straightforward  
and we care about customers  
and colleagues
we provide inspirational ranges, across 
the spectrum of product categories, 
that meet customers’ needs
we offer compelling value and easy 
payment methods alongside services 
that make selecting and installing new 
flooring an easy, pain-free process
we operate national networks of 
stores, in each of the countries we 
trade, supported by country-specific 
transactional websites
who we are: we are working hard to 
transform our brand, culture, values 
and corporate identity
what we sell: we are broadening 
our total floorcovering range to meet 
customer demand
how we sell: we are embedding 
product training, customer service 
standards, interest free credit and 
a host of other initiatives 
where we sell: we are repositioning 
our stores estate, allowing customers 
to access our products in a 
contemporary and welcoming  
retail environment
see p6 for more information
see p7 for more information
see p8 for more information
see p9 for more information
strategic report shareholder information financial statements directors’ report
5 www.carpetright.plc.uk | who we are
our stores, the brand and our people
read more about our strategy on pages 10 to 13
achievements in 2017
 – refurbished 160 stores in the uk
 – refurbished nine stores in the  
netherlands and belgium
 – recruited lucy alexander as  
brand ambassador
 – secured “which? – post-investment performance of refurbished 
estate continues to be encouraging with like-
for-like sales up by 6.8% on average. – like-for-like sales in the second half increased 
by 1.8% partially mitigating the decline of 2.8% 
experienced in the first half, to give a full year 
decline of 0.5% (2016: 2.8% growth). rest of europe
 – like-for-like sales growth of 2.5% 
(2016: 4.8%). results and dividend
total revenue for the year ended 
29 april 2017 increased by 0.2% to 
£457.6m (2016: £456.8m), reflecting 
further store closures as we continued 
to rationalise our estate. through this we will maximise value for our shareholders by 
delivering long-term sustainable growth in earnings per share 
and cash flow. – underlying operating profit of £10.7m 
(2016: £17.8m) with reduction reflecting 
sterling depreciation impact and margin effect 
of measures to address increased competition. during the 
course of the financial year the average 
level of consumer confidence was 
-5, which compares to +2 in the prior 
year comparative. the combined result 
has been a decline in overall profitability 
which indicates it has been a tough year. strategic report 
financial highlights
group 
 – group revenue increased to £457.6m 
(2016: £456.8m). – underlying profit before tax of 
£14.4m (2016: £18.3m), in line with 
market expectations. – year-end net debt position of £9.8m 
(2016: £1.1m) reflects investment in the 
accelerated store refurbishment programme. – statutory profit before tax of £0.9m 
(2016: £12.8m). – separately reported items of £13.5m 
(2016: £5.5m), primarily related to  
increased onerous lease cost provisions  
on loss-making stores. we are aiming 
to have completed the remainder of the 
uk estate with some form of additional 
investment (at a minimum, re-branding 
with the new identity) by december 2018.
we have a similar programme underway 
to address the un-invested estate in the 
netherlands and belgium. the uk market is currently split 
60/40 on carpets versus hard flooring, 
while carpetright, because of its heritage, 
has a split of 90/10 in favour of carpet. in the netherlands and belgium, we have 
re-introduced a range of curtains and 
blinds. – hard flooring category achieving double 
digit sales growth as it benefits from greater 
strategic focus. – focus on improving customer service 
delivering stronger satisfaction metrics. recent 
evidence shows that retailers must adapt 
to combat tougher trading conditions. the board continue to prioritise the use of 
cash for the acceleration of the strategy 
by investing further in the existing store 
estate, while also reducing the fixed 
occupancy costs as quickly as possible.