they are therefore deemed by the company to be  
non-independent non-executive directors. accordingly all directors shall stand for re-election at the 
forthcoming agm. the remuneration and terms and conditions of 
appointment of the non-executive directors of the 
company will be set by the board. non-executive directors’ letters 
of appointment
the company’s non-executive directors are not 
committed by service contracts to the company and 
are engaged by letters of appointment. > the group continued to produce robust sales in the latin america ipmi individual 
market and set the stage to increase group business and enter new regions for the 
next fiscal year. > gbg china reorganised its management structure to better position itself for improved 
product and service offerings for the next fiscal year. over the past year we have delivered a strong financial 
performance, further strengthening our balance sheet 
and declaring a maiden dividend. progressive change
reflecting on 2017 i am pleased with the significant strides 
made by gbgi. this performance has been achieved against the 
demanding backdrop of preparing the business for its 
admission to aim and the consequent transition of the 
business to comply with the high-governance and ethical 
standards of the qca corporate governance code for 
small and mid-size quoted companies. it is 
their knowledge, skills and professionalism that delivers 
for customers and shareholders and it is my privilege as 
chairman to work alongside them. whilst gbgi is already 
active in over 120 jurisdictions, we continually assess 
and conduct due diligence in territories where we are 
not currently active to determine if it’s appropriate for 
shareholders to allocate resources and capital. regulation and compliance
our view is that the regulatory oversight across all our 
markets will continue to evolve. we now have some 302 colleagues and a culture that 
prioritises diligent, results-driven and collegial working 
practices. in addition, the group engages an independent third party 
to review the reserves and reserve methodologies annually. in her non-executive career, 
anne has chaired audit, 
risk and remuneration 
committees in both the 
charitable and commercial 
sectors. auditor
the auditor, bdo usa, llp has expressed its willingness to 
continue to act as the company’s auditor and resolutions 
for its appointment and for the directors to determine its 
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting. in addition to my appointment as non-executive chairman 
the group welcomed anne gunther, murray wood and 
david gibson as non-executive directors effective from 
admission to aim in february 2017. in july 2017 the board 
welcomed doug trussler as a new non-executive director 
and representative of our long term shareholder, bison 
capital. eric dickelman
chief financial officer
21 november 2017 10
governance
gbgi annual report 2017
board of directors
bill ward 
non-executive chairman
bill has over 30 years of 
experience in the 
healthcare and health 
insurance sector. bill was 
formerly coo of bupa’s 
global health insurance 
businesses, managing 
director of bupa 
international and ceo of 
cigna europe. bill is founder 
and ceo of lime white 
advisory limited and is 
currently a senior advisor 
at the boston consulting 
group for their worldwide 
healthcare and insurance 
practices. view our website at www.gbg.com gbgi annual report 2017 01
strategic report governance financial statements
highlights
key performance indicators
profit before income tax: 
$13.9m
2016: $10.7m
total revenue: 
$134.3m
2016: $108.2m
ebitda: 
$13.6m
2016: $12.3m
gross written premiums: 
$183.5m
2016: $153.6m
net written premiums: 
$105.7m
2016: $77.7m
yoy growth in gwp:
19.4%
2016: 9.2%
 > the entire issued ordinary share capital of gbgi was admitted to trading on aim, 
a market operated by the london stock exchange, on 22 february 2017. 
the company raised gross proceeds of £32.0 million (before expenses) by way 
of a placing of 21.3 million new ordinary and existing treasury shares at a placing 
price of 150 pence per ordinary share. strong financial performance
gross written premiums (“gwp”) grew 19.4 percent to  
$183.5 million, driven by moderate rate increases and 
growth in policy count. an increase in the business we 
retain on balance sheet, underpinned by our consistent 
loss ratio track record, drove higher net earned premiums, 
up 29.3 percent to $91.4 million. investment in operations, including in staffing 
levels and training, led to the expense ratio increasing to 
29.6 percent (fy 2016: 28.6 percent). gbgi operates under the following brands:
>  gbg insurance limited – insurance entity domiciled in guernsey, 
channel islands
>  global benefits group, inc. (gbg) – managing general underwriter 
based in california in the united states
because of our unique underwriting platform, gbg can offer a multitude 
of insurance products – including medical, life, income replacement and travel – 
to individuals and groups of any size practically anywhere in the world. as globalisation of the world’s economy continues to accelerate, gbg maintains 
its position as a market leader in developing customised products that are 
desperately needed by international and multinational companies. > global benefits group and axa have agreed to engage in a global strategic partnership 
and will work together to enter new high-growth ipmi markets and segments. > the tiecare international brand landed its largest-ever group medical insurance 
account and maintained its presence as a dominant player in the international 
educational employee benefits segment. the funds raised have improved an already 
robust capital position, with our solvency coverage ratio 
standing at 150.4 percent at 30 june 2017 and a.m. best, 
the ratings agency, upgrading its outlook on gbgi’s 
financial strength rating in july 2017. the positive 
reputational benefits from the listing have already 
been felt in terms of commercial momentum. operationally we have been focused on adapting our 
business for current and future growth, investing in 
decentralising operations and augmenting our it 
infrastructure to enable operational effectiveness. our commitment to delivering underwriting profit to our 
reinsurers enabled by the quality of our underwriting 
operations and data history, led to continued strong 
insurance profits for the year. with the business growing 
rapidly we are focused on ensuring the appropriate level 
of investment in the operational infrastructure of the 
business. gbgi  
annual report
2017
gbgi annual report 2017 strategic report
01 highlights
02 chairman’s statement
04 chief executive officer’s statement
07 chief financial officer’s review
governance
10 board of directors
12 directors’ report
13 corporate governance statement
17 audit committee report
19 directors’ remuneration report
21 directors’ statement
financial statements
22 independent auditor’s report
23 consolidated statement of comprehensive income
24 consolidated statement of financial position
25 consolidated statement of changes in equity
26 consolidated cash flow statement
27 notes to the consolidated financial statements
corporate information
66 company information
contents
gbgi leads the way in providing international employee benefits 
gbgi is one of the largest independent, fully integrated providers of international 
benefits in the world. in 2017 , we celebrated our 36th year of serving the 
needs of expatriates, third-country nationals and local nationals. gbgi annual report 2017 02
strategic report
chairman’s statement
overview
i am delighted to introduce the maiden annual report and 
accounts for gbgi for the year ending 30 june 2017. it has 
been a landmark year for the company, having achieved 
a successful aim listing in february 2017. this report covers 
the performance of the group’s pre listing parent saxton 
lane from 1 july 2016 to 21 february 2017 and gbgi 
limited from 22 february 2017 to 30 june 2017. building 
on our proven growth track record, the group grew gross 
written premiums to in excess of $183.5 million for the 
first time in its history, with revenue for the year growing 
over 23 percent. the completion of our 
aim listing earlier this year was a landmark event for the 
business. overall net revenues grew 
24.2 percent to $134.3 million. ebitda in the year 
was $13.6 million, a growth of 10.6 percent during the year. profit before tax increased 29.8 percent to $13.9 million 
(fy 2016: $10.7 million). profit attributable to the group 
after tax increased 29.8 percent to $13.5 million (fy 2016: 
$10.4 million).