people
our team is our biggest asset. leadership
good corporate governance is fundamental to the success 
of our business. the board and its committees have a key role in 
our 	 governance 	 framework 	 by 	 providing 	 external 	 and 	 independent	
support	and	challenge,	understanding	the	views	of	shareholders	
and stakeholders, and ensuring that a culture of good governance 
is promoted across the business. as 	 a 	 result 	 we 	 are 	 putting 	 increasing 	 resources	
behind this part of our business. gavin 	 wood 	 joined 	 the 	 company 	 as 	 cfo-elect 	 in	
july 2016, replacing jeff iliffe as cfo and executive director 
on	12	september	2016.	additionally,	jim	warwick	retired	
from	abcam	and	stepped	down	from	the	board	on	
31 december 2016, and anthony martin and michael ross 
did not seek re-election as non-executive directors at the agm 
in november 2016, leaving the board on 31 october 2016. 
i 	 am 	 pleased 	 to 	 say 	 that 	 over 	 the 	 year 	 we 	 have 	 completed	
the	hiring	of	our	executive	leadership	team	and,	as	well	as	
appointing	gavin	as	our	new	cfo,	we	have	also	added	a	
senior vice president of technology and a senior vice president 
of global manufacturing & supply chain. murray hennessy
chairman
8 september 2017
5 annual report and accounts 2017 abcam plc
strategic report core purpose
at	abcam	we	are	focused	on	providing	research	antibodies	
and other research tools to serve life scientists and enable our 
consumers	to	achieve	their	mission	faster. read more about our achievements against these priorities 
in the strategic priorities section. as 	 we 	 indicated 	 at 	 the 	 half 	 year, 	 we 	 have 	 now 	 revised 	 our	
kpis moving into 2018 to better reflect the overall direction 
of the business and our updated goals. we continue to identify the 
biological pathways of greatest interest to our consumers  
and continuously strive to provide products of the highest 
quality with increased specificity, reproducibility and sensitivity. at the same time, through investment and acquisition, we 
are expanding into new markets, identifying new technologies 
and applications while moving into new geographic regions, 
thereby driving sustainable growth. this	way	
we 	 are 	 able 	 to 	 offer 	 scientists 	 the 	 newest 	 and 	 best 	 research 	 tools	
available globally regardless of source. customers
our 	 customers 	 are 	 research 	 scientists 	 who 	 need 	 high 	 performance	
products 	 with 	 detailed 	 technical 	 specifications. on a constant exchange rate 
(cer)
1
	 basis 	 the 	 increase 	 was 	 9.9%
2
, meeting our full year guidance
•  catalogue revenue increased by 27.4% on a reported basis 
to £202.5m (fy 2016: £159.0m) and 10.8% on a cer basis
•  rabmab
®
 primary antibody and non-primary antibody 
revenues	grew	on	a	reported	basis	by	43.9%	and	33.0%,	
and 25.2% and 15.6% on a cer basis, respectively, both 
delivering on our key performance indicator (kpi) targets
• 	 reported	gross	margin	of	70.1%	following	the	reclassification	
of certain costs
3
 (fy 2016: 70.2%). on a like for like basis fy 2016 
gross	margin	was	69.2%
• ebitda	margin	was	32.5%	(fy	2016:	33.6%). adjusted	ebitda	
margin
4
	was	33.8%	(fy	2016:	34.9%),	reflecting	the	continued	
investment in the business
• profit	before	tax	(pbt)	on	a	reported	basis	was	£51.9m	
(fy 2016: £45.4m) and £64.6m (fy 2016: £53.8m) on an 
adjusted	basis
5
•  reported diluted earnings per share (eps) increased by 11.9% 
to	20.74	pence	(fy	2016:	18.53	pence). 2	 	 unaudited	figures	 in	our	pre-close	updat e	stated	10.2%	revenue	growth. abcam plc annual report and accounts 2017
sustaining  
long-term growth
abcam plc annual report and accounts 2017 investing for a 
sustainable future
we are committed to serving life science researchers to 
achieve their mission faster. strategic report
mission
to serve life scientists to  
achieve their mission faster
vision
to be the most influential life sciences 
company for researchers worldwide strategic report
1 highlights of our year
2 about us
4 chairman’s introduction
6 our business model
7	 chief	executive	officer’s	review
10 our markets
12 our strategic priorities
14 our kpis
15 our risks
20  sustainability
22	 our	financials
corporate governance
29	 chairman’s	governance	overview
30  directors and company secretary
32  corporate governance report
37 audit and risk committee
40 nomination committee
41 remuneration report
55 directors’ report
financial statements
59 independent auditors’ report
65 consolidated income statement
65  consolidated statement of comprehensive income
66 consolidated balance sheet
67 consolidated statement of changes in equity
68	 consolidated	cash	flow	statement
69	 notes	to	the	financial	statements
97 company balance sheet
98 company statement of changes in equity
99	 notes	to	the	company	financial	statements
107 technical glossary
108 corporate directory
108 shareholder information
financial highlights
•  total revenue increased 26.5% on a reported basis to  
£217.1m (fy 2016: £171.7m). as	a	
result 	 of 	 the 	 completion 	 of 	 the 	 year-end 	 financial 	 review 	 and 	 audit, 	 actual 	 total	
revenue	growth	in	the	year	is	9.9%. these costs are only incurred in relation 
to selling product and management has concluded that it is more appropriate 
to include the costs in gross margin as a cost of sales to give a more accurate 
representation of the true cost of product sales. governance
we are committed to high standards of governance 
and	continue	to	comply	in	all	material	respects	with	the	
uk corporate governance code, despite it not being a 
requirement	for	an	aim-listed	company. it is recognised, 
however, that no risk management strategy 
can provide absolute assurance against loss. risk management framework
our	risk	management	framework	provides	the	structure	
within	which	principal	risks	affecting	our	business	are	managed,	
and sets tone, culture and appetite for risk. the board is accountable for carrying out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the group, including those threatening 
its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity. our main product types
antibodies
the	human	body	makes	proteins	known	as	antibodies	when	it	
becomes infected by a foreign body, like bacteria. each antibody 
binds to a very specific part of the surface of the foreign body that 
we 	 call 	 the 	 antigen 	 – 	 different 	 antibodies 	 bind 	 to 	 different 	 antigens. we can artificially generate antibodies to target antigens on 
molecules	we	are	interested	in	studying	to	understand	where	
they	are	located	within	a	cell	or	tissue	sample. research-grade antibodies
our main focus is providing antibodies intended for basic research 
–	that	is,	those	typically	used	in	academic	pharma	and	biotech	
laboratories to investigate fundamental scientific questions. adjusted	diluted	eps
6
 
increased by 13.9% to 25.46 pence (fy 2016: 22.35 pence)
• 	 closing	cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	term	deposits	were	
£84.8m (30 june 2016: £70.7m)
•  proposed full year dividend increase of 14% to 10.18 pence 
per share (fy 2016: 8.91 pence)
operational highlights
•  continued to gain market share globally as a result of our 
direct customer focus and digital marketing leadership 
•  led stakeholder discussions to raise industry quality standards 
through knockout validation, expansion of recombinant 
antibody portfolio, and other quality initiatives 
•  expanded use of the fireplex
®
 (formerly firefly
®
)	platform	within	
the kits/assays range by introducing 142 validated antibody pairs 
and validated a range of these pairs in multiplex immunoassays
•  further expanded our addressable market in custom 
products and licensing by providing ‘abcam inside’ for multiple 
pharmaceutical and diagnostic development partners 
•  accelerated axiomx technology milestone payments in 
recognition	of	technical	success	demonstrated	with	the	
unique antibody development capabilities at axiomx
•  launched several of the oracle cloud modules of our 
new	erp	system	and	made	good	progress	towards	
full implementation in fy 2018
•  completed recruitment of the executive leadership team 
with	the	appointment	of	a	new	cfo	as	well	as	new	hires	
of senior vp of technology and senior vp of global 
manufacturing & supply chain
•  commissioned construction of abcam’s purpose-built global 
hq at the expanding biomedical campus in cambridge, uk, 
with	expected	occupancy	in	fy	2019
1   constant currency is calculated by applying prior period’s actual exchange 
rates to this period’s results. 3	 	 this	refe rs	to	goods -in	processing	costs,	w hich	are	costs	incurred	in	receiving,	
resizing and storing brought-in product. kits
kits contain everything a researcher needs to run an experiment: 
the reagents and protocol are provided and the contents have 
been optimised for maximum performance. abcam is a producer and marketer  
of high quality protein research tools. we	are	headquartered	in	cambridge,	uk	with	eleven	additional	locations	across	
asia, the uk, and the us. 2 abcam plc annual report and accounts 2017
strategic report
about us our global presence 
headquartered 	 in 	 cambridge, 	 uk, 	 we 	 employ 	 over 	 1,000 	 people 	 across 	 twelve 	 locations, 	 servicing 	 researchers 	 in 	 more 	 than 	 130 	 countries. underpinning	our	
transformation	is	the	solid	financial	foundation	we	have	
established. overall, 	 we 	 believe 	 the 	 changes 	 we 	 are 	 creating	
will	enable	us	to	double	the	scale	of	abcam	from	2016	to	
2023 in terms of the life science research influence and 
commercial scale of the group. we have over 1,000 employees 
and	we	are	proud	to	have	over	140	in-house	phds. a researcher provides 
the sample of interest and the kit delivers everything else. i am grateful for the 
hard work, enthusiasm  
and dedication of all our 
employees. our team
i	am	grateful	for	the	hard	work,	enthusiasm	and	dedication	
of all our employees.