last year we sold 39,790 cubic meters of accoya and medite sold 5,806 cubic meters of 
tricoya panels, representing year growth for the year of 18% and 31% respectively. the boat covers 100 square metres and consists of two floors 
with the rooftop being half filled with solar panels. sales by medite of tricoya 
panels increased by 32% to 5,806 cubic meters last year. we continue to believe the total market for accoya and 
tricoya is in excess of 2.6 million cubic meters per annum, 
based upon detailed market assessments. accsys group
brettenham house 
19 lancaster place 
london 
wc2e 7en
+44 (0)207 4214300
www.accoya.com www.tricoya.com www.accsysplc.com
accsys technologies 2016, accsys technologies is a trading name of titan wood limited. accoya®, tricoya® and the trimarque device are registered 
trademarks owned by titan wood limited (‘twl’), a wholly owned subsidiary of accsys technologies plc, and may not be used or reproduced without 
written permission from twl, or in the case of the tricoya® registered trademark, from tricoya technologies limited, who have exclusive rights to exploit 
the tricoya® brand. © accsys technologies plc 2017
accsys technologies plc annual report & financial statements 2017
cover images
1 accoya boardwalk – norway
2 tricoya exterior lighting – new zealand
3 accoya cladding, fast food chain – north america
4 accoya cladding, fast food chain – united kingdom
5 accoya cladding, private residence – new zealand
6 accoya boardwalk – switzerland
7 accoya floor, indoor velodrome – the netherlands
8 accsys guitar – united kigdom
accsys technologies plc 
2017 annual report 
and financial  
statements
a year of 
transformation 
and growth accsys technologies plc annual report 2017
overview
01 2017 highlights
02 accsys at a glance
04  our investment proposition
strategic report
08 chairman’s statement
10 tricoya consortium
12 our market
14 our business model
16 our strategy
18 arnhem expansion 
20  chief executive’s report
26 accoya 10 years on
28 financial review
34 sustainability report
corporate governance
40 board of directors
44  directors’ report
48  remuneration report
63  corporate governance
65   statement of directors’ responsibilities
financial statements
6 8  g r ou p i nde pe nde n t  
auditors’ report
70 consolidated statement  
  of comprehensive income 
71 consolidated statement  
 of financial position
72 consolidated statement  
 of changes in equity
73 consolidated statement  
 of cash flow 
74  notes to the financial statements
103 company independent  
 auditors’ report
105 condensed company  
 balance sheet
106 notes to the company  
 financial statements
shareholder information
1 1 2  s h ar e ho l d e r in f or m a t i on
accsys technologies plc (‘accsys’ or the ‘company’) 
is a chemical technology group focused on the 
development and commercialisation of a range 
of transformational technologies based upon the 
acetylation of solid wood and wood elements 
(wood chips, fibres and particles) for use as 
high performance, environmentally sustainable, 
construction materials. arnhem 
development
increasing accoya capacity from  
40,000 to 80,000 cubic meters 
 
page 18
tricoya consortium
a transformational deal for  
accsys – construction of the 
world’s first tricoya
®
 plant
 
page 10
accoya  
10 years on
10th anniversary of accoya wood  
being produced commercially 
 
page 26 01 overview governance strategic report financial statements
2017 
highlights
total group revenue
€56.5m
(2016: €52.8m)
accoya revenue
€50.7m
(2016: €43.4m)
gross profit
€14.4m
(2016: €18.2m)
underlying ebitda
*
(
€1.2
)
m
(2016: €2.4m)
period end cash balance
€41.2m
(2016: €8.2m)
period end net cash balance
€20.1m
(2016: €8.2m)
strategic highlights
• transformational, fully funded 
production capacity expansions 
underway:
 − agreements to build and operate 
new 30,000 metric tonne 
tricoya chip plant in hull; work 
has commenced with the plant 
expected to be operational in 
early 2019;
 − expansion of arnhem accoya 
plant continues to progress with 
completion of the first stage 
of expansion to 60,000 cubic 
meters capacity expected by  
the end of 2017;
• future success of the projects 
is reinforced by minimum off-
take agreements with medite in 
addition to existing agreement with 
rhodia acetow (formerly solvay 
acetow); and
• sale and leaseback of land in 
arnhem completed, with significant 
new warehouse facilities under 
construction by our landlord to 
improve our operating environment. the company’s technologies and brands are 
internationally protected by strict confidentiality, 
granted patents, patent applications and trademarks 
as well as being supported by strong sustainability 
certifications. many have been technically validated 
at full commercial production level and long term 
use, and others are in pilot-scale or are subject to 
independent validation by experts. our products have 
been certified for use by various building regulations 
around the world. commercial scale 
accoya
®
 wood 
production and sales 
facility in arnhem
building and 
operating of tricoya
®
 
wood chip acetylation 
plant in hull
accoya and tricoya 
technology licensing 
and business 
development
technology and 
product development 03 overview governance strategic report financial statements
our products
accoya is the world-leading high 
performance sustainable wood. this reduced the amount of waste material, avoiding unnecessary 
impact on the environment while also reducing costs. at the same time, our employees were being tasked 
with maximising the output from our existing facilities. since then we have carried out many improvements to  
our process which enabled us to increase capacity from 
the same two chemical reactors. detailed engineering work has progressed and 
continues on site, with the third reactor itself having been 
delivered to site on 8 june 2017. we continue to expect the 
construction to be complete by the end of the calendar 
year 2017, with the benefit of the additional capacity and 
resulting sales growth expected in the financial year ending 
march 2019. 
the fourth reactor will be added at a later date to meet 
demand, increasing capacity to 80,000 cubic meters, 
with the potential to generate in excess of €120m of 
accoya revenue and accoya manufacturing ebitda in 
excess of €30m. 61 accoya distributor, supply and agency agreements in place covering most of europe, australia, 
canada, chile, china, india, israel, mexico, morocco, new zealand, south africa, parts of the 
middle-east and south-east asia and the usa. tricoya is opening 
new markets where wood based 
panels would never have been 
considered before. this would be a small fraction 
of the global solid wood industry. our products are first in class and 
leading the revolution of modified 
woods in a building industry which 
is starting to recognise and adopt to 
the significant long term benefits of 
such materials. the expanded group and the accsys team are now very 
well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that 
we have been nurturing since the company’s inception. the balance excludes €12.4m net proceeds of the firm 
placing and open offer which was completed after the 
year-end in april 2017. 
outlook
i believe we have now reached a solid platform for future 
growth, both in respect of our products and intellectual 
property but also in respect of our business model, 
reflecting our ambition to retain a direct interest in 
manufacturing as we continue to grow to maximise returns 
for our shareholders. tricoya 
displaces alternative more expensive or less easily 
handled products and opens up major new market 
opportunities in the construction sector. strong branding and trademark protection is vital and has 
enabled our products to generate a significant presence 
in a relatively short time in what is otherwise a fragmented 
market place. accoya solid wood and tricoya wood elements, 
which is the feedstock for tricoya panels, are 
manufactured through the company’s proprietary 
acetylation wood modification process. these solid 
wood and wood element products exhibit superior 
dimensional stability, durability and other important 
benefits compared with alternative natural, treated 
and modified woods as well as more resource 
intensive man-made materials and panels. it is stable, durable, resists rot, 
is harder and stronger. accoya has properties that match 
or exceed those of the best tropical 
hardwoods, yet is manufactured from 
sustainable fsc
®
 certified wood. see note 3 of the group financial statements for reconciliation 
of operating profit to ebitda
financial and operational highlights
• total revenue increased by 7% notwithstanding the 
previous year reflected a greater contribution from one-
off licensing income; accoya revenue increased by 17%;
• accoya sales volumes have grown by 18% to 39,790 
cubic meters in the year and strong performance in the 
second half with volumes up 31%;
• gross margin decreased as expected from 34% to 25% 
for a number of reasons including prior year one-off 
licensing income, full year of discounted prices to rhodia 
acetow, higher sales to medite for tricoya and a small 
increase in raw wood prices; 
• 30% gross margin from the manufacturing of accoya 
continues to be achievable;
• positive underlying ebitda of €0.4m in second half of 
the year, resulting in underlying ebitda loss of €1.2m for 
the full year;
• balance sheet significantly strengthened through €82m 
of funding in transformational deal:
 − €68m of equity and debt from medite , bp, business 
growth fund, volantis and rbs to fund the building 
of the world’s first tricoya
 
wood chip acetylation plant 
in hull; €37m of this was received in the financial 
period; and
 − €12m (net) from a placing and open offer providing 
additional working capital in the context of the two 
significant capital projects, with proceeds received 
post year-end. 17%
7% 61
accoya
 
distributor, supply 
and agency agreements  
in place 
02 accsys technologies plc annual report 2017
at  
a glance
accsys’ operations
our business consists of the following:
distribution network and market
the market for accoya and tricoya has been estimated as in excess of 2.6 million cubic meters 
annually. it is 
guaranteed for 50 years for use 
above ground and 25 years in 
ground or freshwater; in summary 
its performance is remarkable. tricoya is also guaranteed for 50 years 
above ground and 25 years in ground 
or freshwater; its performance and 
properties are outstanding. we have obtained numerous 
certifications and accreditations 
including accoya being cradle to 
cradle gold certified. the lay-out of the medite tricoya facades follows a tatami grid 
system and is applied in a fish-scale pattern. partnerships and 
commercial terms with bp, medite and rhodia acetow 
(formerly solvay acetow) also endorse accsys’ patented 
accoya and tricoya technology and our prospects for 
the future. as a small company the increased workload of negotiating 
and finalising the tricoya consortium and expanding our 
accoya facility in arnhem fell on a small management 
team. *  underlying ebitda excludes exceptional items. the floating house and office were built by oranje arkenbouw 
in hardenber, the netherlands and medite tricoya extreme was 
supplied by ret in utrecht. this includes €68m of 
comprehensive financing arrangements including debt  
and equity from bp, medite, bgf and volantis and debt 
accoya sales volume m
3
39,790 2017
33,847 2016
33,483 2015
 31%
growth in sales volumes in the  
second half of the financial year  
compared to the same period last year
€82m
total new financing secured overview governance strategic report financial statements 09
from rbs. in addition, these transformational agreements  
have recognised a pre-funding valuation of the tricoya 
business of €35m with accsys retaining a 74.6% interest  
in the tricoya licensing business and a 46% interest in the 
new tricoya plant.