gaming oil & gas
read more page 10 read more page 12
high security  
& public space
read more page 16
t ransport & 
infrastructure
read more page 14 in this report
introduction
01 overview
02 at a glance
04 chairman’s statement 
strategic review
06  chief executive’s statement
10  our markets
18  our proprietary technology
20  our people and values
performance review
22 group financial results
28 our divisions: systems
30 our divisions: integration 
& managed services
governance
32  board of directors
34  chairman’s introduction  
to governance
36  corporate governance statement
39  audit committee report
42  remuneration committee report
46  statutory directors’ report
50  risks and risk management
financial statements
52  independent auditor’s report
56  consolidated income statement
56  consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
57  consolidated statement 
of financial position
58  consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
59  consolidated cash flow statement
60  notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
86 company statement of 
comprehensive income
86 company statement 
of changes in equity
87  company statement 
of financial position
88  notes to the company 
financial statements
other information
96 principal subsidiaries
ibc advisers
headlines
• revenue £70.1 million (2016: £70.9 million)
• underlying profit
1
 up 15% to £3.0 million (2016: £2.6 million)
• profit before tax up 50% to £3.0 million (2016: £2.0 million) 
• underlying diluted eps
1
 15.2p (2016: 12.4p)
• diluted eps 15.1p (2016: 8.8p)
• return on capital employed 8.5% (2016: 7 .6%)
• net cash at 30 november 2017 £3.8 million (2016: £2.2 million)
• y ear-end order book £24.4 million (2016: £26.2 million)
• recommended final dividend increased to 3.0p per share (2016: 2.0p)
financial overview
revenue
-1%
£68.5m
13 14 15 16 17
£82.4m
£70.1m 4.5%
3.9%
12.4p
£64.6m
£70.9m
underlying operating margin
2
+0.6%
13 14 15 16 17
8.7%
2.3%
underlying diluted eps
1
 
+23%
13 14 15 16 17
32.1p £7.0m
13 14 15 16 17
underlying profit/(loss)
1
 before tax
+15%
£(2.5)m
£1.4m
£2.6m
(3.6)%
7.2p
(14.2)p
£3.0m 15.2p
01
synectics plc
annual report and accounts 2017
introduction
1.  underlying profit represents profit before tax and non-underlying items (which comprise 
restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles). underlying earnings per share 
are based on profit after tax but before non-underlying items. 2.  underlying operating margin represents underlying operating profit/(loss) as a percentage 
of revenue, where underlying operating profit/(loss) represents underlying profit/(loss) 
before tax before charging finance income and finance costs. 5 major  
hubs
at a glance
introduction
synectics plc
annual report and accounts 2017 02 we monitor the highest grossing casinos 
in las vegas, new york, and singapore. as such, the pressures on 
employees are often considerable and are consistently borne with 
fortitude and good humour. throughout its 30-year 
history, synectics has consistently demonstrated the combination 
of deep technical capability and practical, expertise-based sales 
approach needed to benefit from such opportunities. this is 
essentially an entrepreneurial skill. a core element of our strategy is to ensure that the business 
keeps building the culture and processes necessary to maintain 
that entrepreneurial essence at larger scale as we continue to grow. the complexity of the task facing our oil & gas customers is 
enormous: safeguarding on-site personnel; protecting offshore 
and onshore assets; and monitoring hazardous and explosive 
areas, often in remote locations under extreme temperatures. monitoring vast, crowded facilities in 
low-light conditions where massive amounts of cash constantly 
changes hands creates a distinctive and challenging surveillance 
environment for our clients. we 
have built deep specialist knowledge of the 
industry, and of the particular challenges 
associated with protecting its infrastructure 
and people, often in remote locations 
under extreme conditions. by definition, many of the facilities we 
protect are in remote locations. our commercial and public sector customers require sophisticated 
yet user-friendly solutions to protect critical infrastructure, often 
in large scale, operationally difficult environments, which present 
great technical complexity. in addition, 
opportunities have been identified for innovative development 
of our core product set, using emerging technology applications 
being introduced in other fields to expand synectics’ offerings 
to its current markets. strategy
synectics’ strategy remains to create leadership positions within 
specialised sectors of the electronic security and surveillance industry, 
through the combination of expert, sector-specific market knowledge 
and, where appropriate, our own proprietary technologies. these 
proprietary technologies are based on open systems and built around 
synectics’ core command and control integration software; they 
are developed specifically for our chosen specialist market sectors 
and provide fundamental differentiation from the offerings of 
mainstream suppliers in the wider electronic security market. visit our investor website 
for up-to-the-minute news 
and announcements: 
synecticsplc.com we safeguard over 5 billion passenger 
journeys every year worldwide. during the 2016/17 financial year the group’s results continued to 
reflect the impact of the 2015 collapse in global oil & gas prices on 
one of our largest customer sectors. management has taken action 
to maintain profitability in that area by reducing costs, and delivered a 
very creditable increase in operating margin in our oil & gas activities 
last year. the board remains convinced that the right course is to 
preserve the critical capability that underlies our leading market 
position in the sector, and indeed to focus on positioning the business 
to gain market share once the recovery is underway. i believe these will remain the 
foundation for a sustainable and prosperous 
future for the company.”
 david coghlan
 chairman 05
synectics plc
annual report and accounts 2017
introduction
people
i would like once again to pass on the board’s sincere thanks to 
synectics’ employees at all levels. the year will be marked by a number of positive and short-term 
negative countercurrents in our largest market sectors, and also 
by clear opportunities to invest organically in solidifying synectics’ 
position as a market leader in specialist high-end surveillance. finally, after close evaluation the board has authorised an increase 
of approximately £500,000 in this year’s research & development 
expense to accelerate synectics’ development of our core software 
product base. although this increased research & development is in one sense 
discretionary expenditure, the board’s judgement is that the long-term 
interests of the company will best be served by ensuring that we 
invest sufficient resources now to capitalise fully on the capabilities 
and market positions that synectics has successfully established 
and built over recent years. we protect the world’s largest  
gas-to-liquids plant, shell pearl in qatar, 
with over 340 cameras across the site. one site we protect experiences 
temperatures which oscillate between 
40ºc in summer and -40ºc in winter. in the past year, we have delivered a series of high-profile offshore 
oil & gas projects, including a solution for a major us deep-water 
floating platform in the gulf of mexico. the system incorporates full hd class 1, division 1 coex™ c3000 
camera stations to monitor both hazardous and safe area zones. another theme which comes through repeatedly is intuitiveness, 
the requirement for specialist systems to be easy and instinctive 
to use. our systems businesses, marketed under the synectics brand, 
secure major contracts for the design, development, and deployment 
of security and surveillance solutions founded on our synergy 3 
platform. our integration & managed services (‘ims’) business, trading under 
the quadrant security group (‘quadrant’) and sss management 
services (‘sss’) brands, serves customers by designing security, 
surveillance, and facilities management solutions, and then 
implementing, maintaining, and supporting them over time. our customers face extraordinarily complex 
challenges in ensuring the security of their 
sites: safeguarding on-site personnel; 
protecting offshore and onshore pipeline 
locations; and monitoring hazardous and 
explosive areas. global specialists in 
integrated security systems
synectics plc 
annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 november 2017 synectics plc is a leader in the design, 
integration, control and management 
of advanced surveillance technology 
and networked security systems
with over 30 years of field-proven experience, synectics has acquired intimate knowledge of the unique 
customer requirements and priorities in commercial, public and industrial environments where security 
is critical to their operations. meeting the needs of highly demanding clients for oil & gas, gaming, transport & infrastructure, 
and high security & public space applications, synectics engineers sector-specific, tailored security 
solutions that its customers rely upon to safeguard their people, facilities and assets – across the world. the world’s leading oil & gas plants, casinos, transport operators and public authorities select synectics. transport operators are recognising the potential for more powerful, 
integrated command and control systems which not only protect the 
public but help to deliver a better passenger experience, both in and 
around the stations and on the vehicles themselves. great technology, a flexible attitude and deep sector expertise – from decades of experience – are what 
set synectics apart. a reconciliation of ‘alternative 
performance measures’ to measures prescribed in financial standards is given on page 27. we have a deep and unique 
understanding of our clients’ 
issues and challenges. and, we draw on this to create solutions they can 
rely on completely – giving them peace of mind 
by securing the people, assets, and livelihoods 
that they are responsible for protecting.