welcome to the world of intelligent event-driven analytics. the directors believe that the enterprise user base is increasingly 
recognising the return on investment from analysing their data. the true value of data
embracing the concept of “fail fast, 
succeed faster”, our award-winning 
rapid platform empowers customers to:
a new era for rosslyn 
data technologies’ 
customers and partners 
accelerate the time to insight from months 
to days by automating data processes
reduce it infrastructure costs and improve 
agility by taking data into the cloud
integrate structured and unstructured 
data quickly, without the need for coding 
or data scientists
empower business users to improve the 
quality and relevancy of data in real time
accelerate the development, testing and 
deployment of data analytics applications
generate greater returns of investment 
on your existing data assets
2017 was a year of milestones including key client wins 
and partnerships. furthermore, leveraging the same data 
used for analytics, customers will significantly reduce 
time-consuming, manual processes by automating 
workflows on the same platform. roger bullen
chief executive officer
25 august 2017
roger bullen
chief executive officer
chief executive officer’s statement
see our business model in detail:
our business model – page 08 08  / rosslyn data technologies plc / annual report and accounts 2017
business model
providing tools for business 
users to control their data. dun & bradstreet maintains the world’s largest 
commercial database – approximately 265 million 
business records. roger bullen
chief executive officer
financial review strategic report
 15
cash flow and funds
the group ended the year with cash balances of 
£284,833 (2016: £1,858,841). roger bullen
chief executive officer
25 august 2017
rosslyn brings together 
hr leaders to advance 
the profession – and 
the adoption of 
data analytics 
we have entered a transformative time for the hr 
profession. a strong talent base 
and experienced senior 
management team
a highly differentiated 
platform with 
great scalability
significant growth and 
market opportunity
our award-winning platform is used by a host of prestigious multinationals: strategic report
 01
strategic report
01 highlights 
02 at a glance
 02 our markets
 04 our technology
06 chairman’s statement
07 chief executive officer’s statement
08 business model
10 our strategy
11 key performance indicators
12 key risks
14 financial review
governance
16 board of directors
18 directors’ report
20 statement of directors’ responsibilities 
21 corporate governance report
23 remuneration report
financial statements
25 independent auditor’s report 
26 consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income 
27 consolidated statement of financial position 
28 consolidated statement of changes in equity 
29 consolidated statement of cash flows
30 notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
45 independent auditor’s report 
46 company statement of financial position
47 company statement of cash flows
47 company statement of changes in equity
48 notes to the company’ s financial statements
52 notice of annual general meeting
53 explanatory notes to the 
annual general meeting notice
56 shareholder information
operational and strategic highlights
• customer wins included a major logistics company and a global 
media brand
• deepening partnership with genpact, a leading global bpo firm
• strategic partnership with dun & bradstreet to provide self-service 
data and analytics to procurement professionals
• microsoft data platform of the year finalist in october 2016
• expansion of product suite with an innovative data reporting 
solution developed for financial services client
• further development of our hr analytics product suite
• new tools and functionality added to the rapid platform
• development of group’s strategy to focus on growth through 
acquisition and organically
financial highlights
• group revenues at £3,588,741 (2016: £3,869,050)
• ebitda loss improved by £391,312 to £1,939,293 (2016: £2,330,605)
• loss before tax reduced to £1,963,057 (2016: £2,374,821)
• net cash of £284,833 (2016: £1,858,841)
• subscription revenue remains strong
• continued tight financial and operational management delivered 
a lower cash burn and loss than the previous year at a glance / our markets
02  / rosslyn data technologies plc / annual report and accounts 2017
the true value of data 
is being recognised. with its growing capabilities, following the acquisition of integritie 
in may 2017, rosslyn data technologies is well positioned to become the go-to company for organisations seeking to accelerate business 
outcomes by creating new opportunities from data. the final months also culminated in 
rosslyn data technologies’ first acquisition, integritie, 
a british software company, which completed in may 2017.
the acquisition has bolstered our capability to deliver 
more value to our loyal customers and partners by 
incorporating new technologies into our already powerful 
rapid cloud platform. 1 3 2 06  / rosslyn data technologies plc / annual report and accounts 2017
our aim now is to establish the platform as 
a significant player in cloud-based analytics, 
delivering far more than the “spend” 
environment we have focused on for the 
last three years.”
john o’hara, chairman
results
the financial year to 30 april 2017 was our 
third full year as a public company for rosslyn 
data technologies plc after the listing on aim in 
april 2014. the platform we have built over the 
last three years has received significant accolades 
this year, culminating in receiving a microsoft 
data platform of the year finalist accreditation 
in october 2016, confirming our belief that the 
progress we have made in developing a 
cloud-based solution is significant. rosslyn data technologies plc
annual report and accounts 2017
rosslyn data technologies plc annual report and accounts 2017
t ransforming raw data 
into actionable insight. rosslyn data technologies 
is helping companies unleash 
the value of their data. rosslyn data technologies has built a powerful platform that provides more than just 
business insight; the data used by customers for reporting and analysis automatically informs users of what decisions must be taken next. data challenges facing decision-makers how rosslyn helps decision-makers 
fragmented data structured and unstructured data in one database 
poor data quality cleansed and enriched data for reporting and analysis
limited data control integrated reporting and analytics with self-service tools 
delayed time to action event-driven alerts and automated business processes
one-off data usage feed and host business applications with data from rapid
rosslyn data technologies offices
partner locations
44%
see data as a  
strategic asset
23%
of businesses closely 
align their strategy 
with data strategic report
 03
our solutions are more flexible than traditional it systems, reducing 
deployment time, requiring less storage space and having a high 
processing capacity. our strategy strategic report
 11
key performance indicators
our performance indicators reflect the 
tough trading conditions some of our 
clients and partners have experienced, 
balanced by our continued tight 
financial control. these changes may adversely impact the 
group’s prospects. technical change
the group’s reliance on certain key systems 
and technologies for its continuing operations 
exposes the group to significant risk as the 
systems are vulnerable to interruption and 
damage. the interruption and damage of the 
group’s systems may be due to events beyond 
the control of the group; these events include, 
but are not limited to, natural disasters, 
telecommunications failures, power losses, 
computer viruses and terrorist attacks. we are committed to growing revenues and 
profitability through a dual-track strategy of 
acquisition and organic growth. the group incurs costs in us dollars which offset 
us dollar revenues. this minimises the revenue 
account impact. the group generates euro 
revenues with minimal euro costs. the board 
regards customer satisfaction and low churn 
as important signals. nevertheless some client 
turnover can be expected for reasons which do 
not necessarily reflect poor service. the group has entered into contractual 
agreements with these staff members but 
their continued employment cannot be 
guaranteed. share options are 
available to incentivise key staff. the overall cloud analytics market stands with a total revenue of 
$7.5bn in 2015, and is expected to grow to $23.1bn at a compound 
annual growth rate (cagr) of 25.1% from 2015 to 2020.
the growth in data is well documented with the majority of industry 
analysts pointing towards exponential growth in consumer, m2m, 
mobile and enterprise data while industry players are basing their 
business models on 5–10x growth in volume of data over the next 
five years. this year, growing both our partnerships and our 
direct sales client base has been both challenging 
and rewarding. as previously reported, 
the progress this year was not as rapid as we 
would have liked; brexit, the us presidential 
election and difficult trading times for some of 
our partners and clients has led to a 
slowdown in the delivery of some larger 
contracts. we will continue to 
market to this sector in the months ahead. this equates to 
approximately 13,000 exabytes compared with total big 
data today of approximately 5,000 exabytes. group revenue £3.6m (2016: £3.9m). we ended the year with net cash balances 
of £0.3m (2016: £1.9m). our direct sales operation has delivered some 
notable wins this year, in all the regions in which 
we operate – the uk, continental europe and 
the us – and have managed to grow our average 
annual contract value considerably, up by more 
than 50% (£50k – £77k) since ipo. visit our website to find out more about 
the products and services we offer:
www.rosslyndatatech.com
since 2005, rosslyn data technologies has been at the forefront of helping 
organisations deliver accelerated business value. today, the largest companies 
in the world perform better, and faster, because their employees use our 
innovative data technologies to effectively drive improved business outcomes. being able to visualise data isn’t enough today. senior executives need to be 
able to look into the future.