it has 
taken considerable time and patience to deliver the right 
deal but we believe the structure of the bkr transaction 
allows serica to achieve further transformation whilst 
managing downside risk and avoiding excessive dilution 
or leverage. serica intends to continue targeting exploration opportunities where an 
attractive balance can be struck between financial commitment and risked 
commercial return and has participated in three applications for new 
licences in the ukcs 30th offshore licensing round. serica plans to work on identifying more 
prospects supported by the latest seismic visualisation 
techniques as well as seeking a partner. these were largely incurred on the negotiation 
and documentation of the transaction and on the aim 
admission document published on 30 november 2017. it 
also included other consultancy and advisor fees arising 
throughout the process. the problems with a wax build-up in the lomond to 
everest condensate export line have deferred production 
from erskine but it is expected that this production will 
be recovered once the pipeline restrictions have been 
cleared. the capability of the erskine reservoir and wells 
continues to outperform the projections that serica 
made when the asset was first acquired. serica remains committed to exploration and the 
forthcoming rowallan well, on which serica is fully 
carried, is one of the few significant uk exploration wells 
due to be drilled in 2018 targeting gross reserves over 
100 million boe. the fps interruption was a rare event which the 
operator, ineos fps, was quick to address given the 
strategic importance of this line which transports to 
shore over 40% of total uk oil production. 2017 was a 
landmark year for 
serica, delivering 
our highest profit to 
date and providing 
us with a platform 
to grow further. all figures are reported in us dollars (“us$”) 
unless otherwise stated. 32  financial statements
  32  independent auditor’s report 
  39  financial statements 
  43 notes to the financial statements
 
77  reserves 
 78 glossary 
 79  corporate information
1 serica energy plc annual report and accounts 2017 highlights
 financial 
●  operating profit for 2017 of us$14.1 million, a four-fold 
increase over 2016 operating profit of us$3.4 million
●   group profit after tax of us$17.1 million (2016: 
us$10.8 million) after deferred tax credits of 
us$6.3 million (2016: us$7.5 million) arising from tax 
losses brought forward
●   revenues boosted by strengthening average realised 
sales prices of us$53.2 per barrel of oil (2016: us$42.1 
per barrel) and 41 pence per therm of gas (2016: 
33 pence per therm)
●   total cash balances and term deposits at 
31 december 2017 of us$34.0 million, increased  
from us$16.6 million at 31 december 2016
●   balance sheet strength maintained with limited 
capital commitments and borrowings
 bkr assets acquisition
the acquisition of bp’s interests in the bruce, keith 
and rhum (“bkr”) fields, announced on 21 november 
2017 and expected to complete in late q3 2018, 
transformational for serica:
●   additional revenue streams counterbalance serica’s 
current erskine single field exposure
●   significant additions to production volumes 
and reserves
●   accelerated utilisation of tax losses enhances value 
to serica
●   deal structured to control risk and minimise 
shareholder dilution
 operational
erskine field
●   production averaged just under 2,000 boe per day 
net to serica during 2017 despite wax restrictions and 
december forties pipeline system shut-in
●   serica’s operating and transportation costs 
maintained at approximately us$15 per barrel for the 
year despite production interruptions
●   capabilities of the erskine reservoir and wells 
continue to outperform the projections that serica 
made when the asset was first acquired
●   work continues to clear early 2018 blockage in 
lomond to everest condensate export line
●   engineering and procurement commenced 
for export pipeline bypass to avoid future wax 
restrictions with expected completion in q3 2018
columbus field
serica, as operator of columbus with a 50% interest, is 
moving the field towards development:
●   columbus partners have selected an offtake route via 
the proposed arran to shearwater pipeline
●   submission of a field development plan to the oga 
targeted for mid-year 
exploration
●   preparations for a well on the rowallan prospect in 
the second half of 2018 are progressing to plan with a 
site survey completed last december and tendering 
for a rig underway
●   serica is fully carried on all rowallan well costs on this 
high pressure, high temperature prospect
●   serica has participated in three licence applications 
in the ukcs 30th offshore licensing round 
2 serica energy plc annual report and accounts 2017  outlook for 2018
●   completion of the lomond to everest export line 
bypass during q3 is expected to deliver more 
consistent erskine production performance and 
sales revenues
●   serica’s 40% share in 2018 net cash flows from 
the bkr assets, accruing under the acquisition 
agreement, adds to the company’s cash resources 
upon completion expected in late q3 2018
●   transition work for the bkr assets acquisition is 
well underway:
 –  consultations with transferring staff close to 
completion and recruitment for additional positions 
in progress
 –  new premises for aberdeen operations 
headquarters identified with occupation targeted 
for mid-summer
 –  serica working with bp, oga and partners to 
ensure safe and orderly transition
●   serica’s management believes that the increased 
scale and diversification that the bkr deal brings, 
along with the associated operating capability, will 
provide a platform from which to further grow the 
business through:
 –  identifying and implementing operational 
efficiencies
 –  targeting investment to further enhance the value 
of its assets
 –  seeking complementary acquisitions with a 
continuing focus on the uk north sea. gross profits from operations amounted 
to just under us$20 million, a three-fold increase over 
the prior year, derived solely from our interest in erskine. additional information
additional information relating to serica, can be found on the company’s website at www.serica-energy.com and on 
sedar at www.sedar.com
the strategic report has been approved by the board of directors. business review and future developments 
a review of the business and the future developments of the group is presented in the strategic report (including 
a chief executive officer’s report, a review of operations and financial review) and chairman’s statement (all of 
which, together with the corporate governance statement, are incorporated by reference into this directors’ report). disclosure of information to auditors
the directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors’ report are listed above. so far 
as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, 
being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report, of which the auditor is unaware. on 21 november 2017 serica 
announced that it had reached 
agreement to conditionally  
acquire the bkr assets from bp. serica’s co-venturers are chevron, 
50% (operator), and chrysaor holdings limited, 32% 
as of november 2017. erskine fluids are processed and 
exported via the lomond platform, which is 100% owned 
and operated by chrysaor holdings limited. an updated independent audit of the erskine field 
confirmed serica’s share of estimated proven plus 
probable reserves at 3.1 million boe as of 1 january 2018.
production for 2017 averaged 1,976 boe per day net to 
serica. under the extension terms of the columbus licences, 
serica and its partners in the columbus field were 
required to notify the oga by 31 march 2018 of the 
choice of an offtake route and to submit an fdp by 
30 june 2018.
serica has informed the oga that it will prepare an 
fdp to develop columbus by tying a subsea well into 
the pipeline proposed to be laid between arran and 
shearwater. i have been tremendously 
impressed with the professionalism and enthusiasm of 
the bp staff that will be transferring to serica and i look 
forward to welcoming these staff as well as our new 
recruits into our new operational headquarters which 
will be opened in aberdeen in the second half of 2018.
meanwhile, we are pleased to confirm that serica and 
the other columbus partners have notified the oil and 
gas authority (“oga”) of a selected offtake route for the 
columbus field development. elsewhere in the uk continental shelf 
(“ukcs”) serica is looking to grow its exploration portfolio 
and has participated in three applications for new 
licences in the ukcs 30th offshore licensing round. this was followed by a 
period when wax build-up in the lomond to everest 
condensate export line restricted rates through june 
and july leading into a two-month field shut-in as a 
planned august maintenance programme extended into 
september for additional wax management processes 
and repairs to a lomond caisson. however, the 
wax build-up in the lomond to everest condensate 
export line has been a recurring challenge and, as 
already reported, has caused a further interruption to 
erskine production in early 2018. response to-date has 
been to manage the problem through rate control, 
periodic soaking of the line with solvents and pigging. details of certain share awards that are to be granted to antony craven walker and mitch flegg under the serica 
energy plc long term incentive plan (the “ltip”), which was adopted by the board on 20 november 2017, are 
included in note 27.
auditor
a resolution to reappoint ernst & young llp, as auditor will be put to the members at the annual general meeting. the board and its committees
the composition of the board changed during 2017 
with the appointment of mitch flegg as chief executive 
officer (‘ceo’) on 21 november 2017 at the time of the 
announcement of the proposed acquisition of bp’s 
interests in the bruce, keith and rhum fields in the 
north sea (the ‘bkr assets’). as at 31 december 2017, 
the board of the company consisted of the ceo, the 
executive chairman and two non-executive directors. in the event of an equality of votes at a meeting of 
the board, the executive chairman has a second 
or casting vote. net production of 722,000 boe (2016 – 597,000 boe) and 
operating profits of us$14.1 million (2016 – us$3.4 million) 
represent serica’s strongest annual performance 
to-date even though wax control in the condensate 
export pipeline restricted erskine second half volumes. estimated 
remaining 2p reserves at 1 january 2018 of 3.1 million 
boe net to serica compare to an estimated 3.3 million 
boe when serica first acquired the field interest in 
mid-2015 even though 1.9 million boe net to serica 
have been produced during the intervening period. net production of 722,000 
boe and operating profit of 
us$14.1 million represents 
serica’s strongest annual 
performance to-date. under the terms of the spa, serica will benefit from a 40% share of 2018 net 
cashflow from the acquired assets rising on a stepped basis to 100% in 2022. 
the amount generated in the period up to completion, adjusted for notional 
tax, will be offset against the £12.8 million consideration due at completion. serica’s target over the past two/three years has been to 
diversify the risk associated with being reliant on erskine 
as a single production source and grow into a profitable 
mid-tier independent oil and gas producer through an 
acquisition led strategy, concentrating on assets where 
we believed that we could add value through our own 
expertise. i am very pleased to report that, with the 
agreement to purchase the bkr assets from bp we are 
now well on our way to achieving this goal. these fields 
hold significant potential which serica believes it can 
unlock as a focused, low cost and innovative operator 
under the leadership of mitch flegg who joined us as 
chief executive upon announcement of the transaction. they will be joined on completion of the acquisition 
by experienced staff from bp who bring their expertise 
and knowledge of the assets to cement what i believe 
will be a very strong and technically competent team 
capable of running an exciting new growth phase 
for the company. annual report &  
financial statements
2017 www.serica-energy.com
serica energy   annual report 2017 serica energy plc
52 george street  
london w1u 7ea  
united kingdom
t +44 (0) 20 7487 7300
f +44 (0) 20 7487 7330
info@serica-energy.com
www.serica-energy.com
serica energy plc is an 
independent oil and gas 
company with production, 
development and exploration 
interests in the uk continental 
shelf and exploration interests 
in ireland and namibia. the 
company’s shares are listed 
on aim in london under the 
symbol sqz. communiqué associates limited, edinburgh  
www.communique-associates.co.uk contents
 2 highlights 
 4 executive chairman’s statement 
 
 6 strategic report
  6 chief executive officer’s report
  10 asset portfolio
  12 bkr asset acquisition
  14  review of operations
  17 licence holdings
  18 financial review 
 25 corporate governance
  25  directors’ report
  27  corporate governance statement 
  30  directors’ biographies 
  31 directors’ responsibilities statement 
the strategic report of the operations and financial results of serica 
energy plc (“serica”) and its subsidiaries (the “group”) should be read in 
conjunction with serica’s consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 31 december 2017. references to the “company” include serica and 
its subsidiaries where relevant. 3 serica energy plc annual report and accounts 2017 executive chairman’s 
statement
dear shareholder
i am delighted to report that serica made strong 
progress in 2017. with the announcement in late 
november of serica’s acquisition of operated interests 
in the bruce, keith and rhum fields (bkr assets), the 
company had a very strong finish to what was an 
excellent year.