we are committed to the principles 
of treating customers fairly (tcf) and they are central 
to how we conduct business across all our functions. we are committed to the principles 
of treating customers fairly (tcf) and they are central 
to how we conduct business across all our functions. these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that have not 
yet occurred. there are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by 
these forward-looking statements and forecasts. about liontrust
this is an alternative performance measure ‘apm’ see page 18.
cash and cash equivalents plus other current assets less current liabilities. highlights
£4,791 million
£255 million
£44.9 million
£9.4 million
£14.6 million
25.7 pence
£22.3 million
12.0 pence
£6,523 million
£482 million
£51.5 million
£9.1 million
£17.2 million
29.8 pence
£22.1 million
15.0 pence
increase
increase
increase
decrease
increase
increase
decrease
increase
36%
89%
15%
3%
18%
16%
1%
25% 2   liontrust asset management plc annual report and financial statements 2017
contents
introduction 
highlights 1
chairman’s statement  3
strategic report 
chief executive’s report 6
vision and strategic objectives 7
business model 7
key performance measures 7
fund management review 8
distribution review 14
operations review 14
financial review 14
principal risks and mitigations 18
corporate and social responsibility 20
governance 
board of directors 24
directors’ report 25
directors’ responsibility statement 28
corporate governance report 29
risk management and internal controls report 31
directors’ board attendance report 34
audit & risk committee report 35
nomination committee report 38
remuneration report 40
financial statements – group and company 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 60
consolidated balance sheet 61
consolidated cash flow statement 62
consolidated statement of changes in equity 63
notes to the financial statements 64
liontrust asset management plc financial statements 85
liontrust asset management plc notes to the financial statements 89
independent auditors’ report 97
other information
forward looking statements
this report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses and plans of 
the group. adjusted profit before tax is disclosed in order to give shareholders an 
indication of the profitability of the group excluding non-cash (depreciation, 
intangible asset amortisation and share incentivisation related) expenses 
and non-recurring (professional fees relating to acquisition, cost reduction, 
restructuring, share incentivisation and severance compensation related) 
expenses (“adjustments”), see note 5 below for a reconciliation of adjusted 
profit (or loss) before tax. the cashflow solution’s european growth fund has returned 153.24% since 
launch on 15 november 2006 compared to 77.22% by the msci europe 
ex uk index. see page 18 for 
further details. see page 18 for 
further details. see page 18 for 
further details. see page 18 for 
further details. liontrust asset management plc
annual report & financial statements 2017
pride in our
performance
liontrust asset management plc annual report & financial statements 2017 liontrust asset management plc (the “company” or “liontrust”, or together with its subsidiary entities, the 
“group”, as the context requires) is a specialist fund management company that takes pride in having a 
distinct culture and approach to running money:
the company was founded in 1994 and was 
listed on the london stock exchange in 1999.
we are an independent business with no 
corporate parent, our head office is on the strand 
in london and we have branch offices in 
edinburgh and luxembourg. we have 
seven fund management teams: five that invest in 
uk, european, asian and global equities, one 
team that manages multi-asset portfolios and a 
sustainable investment team. about liontrust liontrust asset management plc (the “company” or “liontrust”, or together with its subsidiary entities, the 
“group”, as the context requires) is a specialist fund management company that takes pride in having a 
distinct culture and approach to running money:
the company was founded in 1994 and was 
listed on the london stock exchange in 1999.
we are an independent business with no 
corporate parent, our head office is on the strand 
in london and we have branch offices in 
edinburgh and luxembourg. we have 
seven fund management teams: five that invest in 
uk, european, asian and global equities, one 
team that manages multi-asset portfolios and a 
sustainable investment team. 1. 2. to have recorded 7 consecutive years of net inflows shows the 
progress the business has made. chairman’s statement
liontrust asset management plc annual report and financial statements 2017   3
introduction 
in my chairman’s statement for last year’s annual report, i wrote that “we also 
face challenges from outside our industry, including yet another year of political 
uncertainty”. it is now clear this was a great understatement and there can be 
few 12-month periods that have produced such a series of political shocks 
culminating in last week general election. stock markets, however, have brushed off the vote for brexit and donald 
trump becoming us president in january to such an extent that the ftse 
100 has reached an all-time high in 2017 and we have been experiencing 
the second longest bull market in history. we believe in the benefits of active fund 
management over the long term and all our fund 
managers are truly active. we focus only on those areas of investment in 
which we have particular expertise. our fund managers are independent thinkers and 
have the courage of their convictions in making 
investment decisions. our fund managers have the freedom to manage 
their portfolios according to their own investment 
processes and market views without being 
distracted by other day-to-day aspects of running a 
fund management company. ian chimes joined us in february 2017 as head of global 
distribution and he has recruited two regional salesmen for the north of 
england and scotland and the midlands. this 
ties in with our partnership with zsl london zoo to support its campaign to 
protect the last remaining asiatic lions in india. economic advantage team
anthony cross, julian fosh, victoria stevens and matt tonge
anthony cross and julian fosh manage the liontrust uk growth and 
liontrust special situations funds while they co-manage the liontrust uk 
smaller companies and liontrust uk micro cap funds with victoria stevens 
and matt tonge. anthony cross and julian fosh 
have 55 years of combined investment experience. 3.
assets under 
management
net flows
profit before tax
gross profit
adjusted profit
before tax
1
adjusted diluted 
earnings per share
1
net cash
2
total dividend 
per share
3
2017 2016
sustained growth of our aum from £4,791 million to £6,523 million demonstrates the substantial
progress made in this year. results
adjusted profit before tax was £17.235 million (2016: £14.623 million). profit before tax is £9.103 million (2016: £9.404 million). dividend
the success in fund performance and distribution has resulted in an increase 
in revenues excluding performance fees of 26% and an 18% increase in 
our adjusted profit before tax to £17.2 million. nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast. the last year has been an important reminder of the difficulty of predicting and 
timing market movements and the benefits and value of financial advice and 
long-term investment as opposed to knee-jerk reactions. therefore, the key for investors is to stay focused on 
what will enable them to achieve their long-term goals rather than obsess over 
intra-day movements in equity markets. it is easy to 
list the challenges that the industry is or could be facing, whether it is political 
uncertainty, current valuations in equity markets, the growth in flows into 
passive investments or technological disrupters.