mammography
s ub-speciality 
symptomatic breast 
reporting. peer review and 
client feedback provides data that guides the continuous learning approach that 
medica encourages its radiologists to adopt. i am a trained appraiser and carry out regular appraisals 
on medica radiologists for whom medica is their designated 
body. i sit on the clinical governance committee which meets 
fortnightly to review all serious discrepancies, root cause 
analyses and any concerns about performance of 
radiologists or radiographers. t his link to the hospital ris is a key 
advantage medica has over 
competitors in the teleradiology 
market. t he teleradiology market continued 
to develop and demand from clients 
grew strongly as n hs t rusts 
continued to face capacity pressure 
and seek efficient solutions of high 
clinical quality. t hrough this 
approach, medica can continue to 
lead the growth of teleradiology in 
the u k.
medica’s key focus is to support 
n hs t rusts at a time when they are 
dealing with increased demands for 
reporting against a backdrop of 
limited in-house capacity. despite the relatively low 
proportion of reporting currently 
outsourced, the c ompany’s 
investment to increase the 
productivity of its radiologists is 
important in increasing the overall 
reporting capacity in the u k.
medica’s employees have performed 
exceptionally well again in 2017 
supporting clients and radiologists 
and always focused on trying to 
ensure the best patient care. other services include:
dayhawk
fast day-time reporting 
(<60 minutes). all of this resulted in ebitd a cash flow 
conversion of 82% (2016: 84%). strong 
financial 
performance
medica has enjoyed strong growth in recent 
years, and this continued throughout 2016, 
with group revenues growing by 18.2% 
to £33.7m (2016: £28.5m) and ebitd a 
growing by 15% to £10.6m (2016: £9.2m). in england from 2013-2016 the 
number of ct and mri scans respectively rose by more 
than 30% – three times more than the rate of 
workforce growth. t eleradiology improves patient care 
by enabling radiologists to provide their services 
remotely, thereby facilitating the rapid availability of 
trained specialists 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. experienced team
t he senior management team has been with the 
business for an average of more than five years and 
includes a previous president of the british institute 
of radiology. o ur it and services platform gives us the scope to 
continue growth in existing service lines, but also 
the ability to service different customer groups and 
to add new service lines. industry expectations 
for increased diagnostic response and reduced 
turnaround time, particularly for stroke and cancer care, 
becoming more demanding. in 2017 the percentage of our plain film 
reporting undertaken by radiographers rose to 14%. gross profit margin edged down 
from 49.8% to 48.7% as anticipated, 
reflecting the ongoing renewal of 
the group’s contracts at marginally 
lower prices as the teleradiology 
market develops and outsourcing 
becomes normal practice. trading results
medica has enjoyed strong growth 
in recent years, and this continued 
throughout 2017, with group 
revenues growing by 18.2% to 
£33.7m (2016: £28.5m) and adjusted 
operating profit growing by 16.4% to 
£9.5m (2016: £8.1m). n et profit increased by 30.6% from 
£3.32m to £4.33m and adjusted basic 
earnings per share increased by 
20.2% from 3.32 pence to 3.99 pence. what we do
t eleradiology is the electronic transmission of 
radiological patient images, including plain film x-rays 
(pf), computerised tomography (ct ) scans and 
magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans, from one 
location to another, for the purposes of diagnostic 
interpretation and reporting. t hrough teleradiology, 
images can be transmitted from the hospital setting, 
where the images are created, to a radiologist who can 
review and report on the images remotely. 24/7 365
rapid availability of  
trained specialists
medica provides outsourced interpretation and 
reporting on mri, ct and plain film images. the 
company currently offers three primary services to 
hospital radiology departments: nighthawk, an out-of-
hours service, routine cross-sectional (routine cs) 
reporting on mri and ct scans, and routine plain film 
(routine pf) reporting on x-ray images. t he group 
saw growth across its main 
teleradiology offerings with revenue 
increasing by 18% on last year. t his 
growth has been underpinned by 
strong recruitment in the period 
which saw a net increase of 58 
radiologists on the prior year. high levels of 
repeat revenues 
o ver 80% of revenue in the financial year ended 
31 december 2017 was derived from customers 
who had worked with medica for more than 
three years, with strong revenue growth even 
from customers who have worked with medica 
for over five years. early diagnosis 
resulting in improved patient outcomes and reduction 
in overall cost. dxa
flexible reporting by u k 
rheumatologists. medica is the largest 
teleradiology provider 
by revenue in the uk
at a glance 3
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017
strategic report governance financial statements overview
how we do it
medica has a bespoke it platform 
that provides market-leading 
linkage between a hospital’s 
radiology information system (ris) 
and consultant radiologists who 
contract with medica. 4
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017 4
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017 4
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017
i am pleased to provide my 
chairman’s statement for 
medica group plc’s  
first year as a public 
company. a strong platform 
for future growth
chairman’s statement
ro y davis
chairman 5
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017
strategic report governance financial statements o verview
5
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017
strategic report governance financial statements o verview
in 2017, medica continued to grow 
strongly and achieved another 
impressive set of results. in the case of 
medica, these are c onsultant radiologists specialising in 
the relevant field, who typically report on the image 
from their own home or from one of medica’s dedicated 
reporting centres. audit
highly experienced and 
robust external auditing 
service. what this means 
direct access to the hospital’s ris 
system and thus to a patients’ 
historical clinical records allows 
medica radiologists to give the most 
complete and accurate reports 
adhering to the highest standards, 
in the same way that the hospital-
based radiologist does. among other benefits, medica offers 
hospital radiology departments the 
ability to manage their workflow 
more efficiently and flexibly, and 
provides rapid access to specialist 
c onsultant radiologists, who may
not be available to that hospital at 
the relevant time, or at all. annual report and accounts 2017
registered company number 08497963
medica group plc annual report and accounts 2017
focused  
on delivering  
quality results the leading 
independent  
uk provider  
of radiology 
reporting
medica group plc
1.5m
reports a year
overview
highlights 1
at a glance 2
strategic report
chairman’s statement 4
investment case 6
market overview 8
business model 10
in focus - clinical quality 12
radiologist q&a 14
chief executive’s review 16
financial review 20
governance
board of directors 26
corporate governance report 28
report of the audit committee 32
report of the nominations committee 34
remuneration committee report 35
directors’ report 54
independent auditor’s report  
to the members of medica group plc 58
financial statements
consolidated income statement and 
consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 62
consolidated statement of financial position 63
consolidated statement of cash flows 64
consolidated statement of changes in equity 65
notes to the financial statements 66
company statement of financial position 84
company statement of changes in equity 85
notes to the financial statements continued 86
company information ibc 1
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017
strategic report governance financial statements overview
another year of  
strong growth
48.7% 82%
*
28.1%
**
highlights
financial
operational highlights
gross profit margin cash conversion adjusted operating 
profit margin
www.medicagroup.co.uk
visit us for our latest news and developments
18.2%
revenue increase
 > t otal number of reported body parts increased by 
7.7%, from 1.35m in 2016 to 1.46m in 2017
• n ighthawk volume increased by 31.1%
• c ross-sectional volume increased by 23.8%
 > recruitment has again been strong throughout 
2017, with the total number of radiologists 
(including radiographers and rheumatologists) 
contracting with medica standing at 306 as at 
december 2017. this represents a net increase  
of 58 year-on-year
 > medica provided services to 103 nhs t rusts and 
private providers in 2017 (2016: 99)
* 
ebitd a cash conversion is detailed in n ote 31
** 
adjusted operating profit margin is detailed in n ote 31 2
medica group plc
annu al repor t and accounts 2017
what is teleradiology? in march 2017, medica successfully 
listed on the main market of the 
l ondon stock exchange, raising 
gross proceeds of £15m for the 
c ompany, which were used to pay 
down the net debt of the group to 
approximately £10m. by the end of 
the year cash generation had further 
reduced the net debt to £5m and 
medica’s strengthened financial 
position provides us with a strong 
platform to support growth and 
future development of the group. medica is well placed to pursue 
further organic and other growth 
opportunities to generate long-term 
value for shareholders.