highlights
delivering growth through investment excellence
in 2017, we maintained strong investment outperformance after 
all fees for our clients. healthy net inflows demonstrate the 
success of our diversification strategy, underpinned by a resilient 
balance sheet, allowing healthy returns to shareholders. we 
maintained strong levels of investment 
outperformance for our clients after 
all fees, which is our primary aim. this resulted in 
significant net inflows of £5.5bn into 
our increasingly diversified range of 
investment strategies and products. i was very pleased with the net inflows 
of £5.5bn (2016: £1.0bn), which help to 
show the success of our diversification 
strategy, with positive inflows across 
each quarter. these inflows, coupled 
with our investment outperformance 
and market movements, resulted in a 
24% increase in our aum. the adjusted cost 
income ratio was steady at 55%, which 
meant that the revenue growth funded 
continued investment in our business and 
platform as well as increased profitability. the 
group converts a high proportion of 
earnings into cash, generating operating 
cash flows after tax of £194.6m in 2017 
(2016: £147.3m). who we are
jupiter is a high conviction 
active fund manager;  
we aim to deliver value to 
clients through investment 
outperformance after all fees. 2
strategic report
at a glance
jupiter manages mutual funds, segregated mandates and investment trusts 
on behalf of individuals and institutions. investment outperformance 
is at the heart of what 
we do
we aim to deliver value for money to 
our clients through active fund 
management that delivers long‑term 
investment outperformance, after all fees. investment outperformance helps us to 
grow our assets under management 
(aum), by ensuring we keep existing 
clients and attract new ones. what we are  
here to do
jupiter’s purpose is to 
help investors meet their 
long-term investment 
objectives. this 
enabled the continued investment in  
our business. our people and culture 
are key
we believe that talented individuals who 
are free to pursue their own investment 
styles can make the most difference for 
clients. with no ‘house view’ to constrain 
them, our fund managers actively seek 
the best investment opportunities through 
fundamental analysis, with a focus on 
good stewardship. a diversified and 
resilient business model
in recent years, we have followed a 
successful strategy of diversifying jupiter 
by geography, client type and product 
while maintaining and investing in our 
efficient operating platform. we aim to protect 
and grow their assets and provide  
an excellent service. the 
board believes that jupiter has a robust 
and sustainable business model and is 
confident that, with the delivery of value 
for clients, jupiter can continue to thrive. we continue to develop attractive 
new products. it also included 
substantial changes to our operating 
platform in preparation for all the 
requirements of mifid ii. a consistent strategy
under maarten slendebroek’s leadership, 
jupiter has followed a consistent strategy, 
with investment outperformance for our 
clients at its heart, which has successfully 
diversified and grown the group. during the year, the board reviewed 
the strategy in detail in the context of 
jupiter’s evolving markets, our success to 
date and the environment of significant 
change around us. lorraine has brought energy, commitment 
and a different perspective to the board 
and this has been invaluable to jupiter 
as the business has grown and 
developed. 1
strategic report governance financial statements other information
jupiter fund management plc annual report and accounts 2017
non-financial
at 31 december 2017, 81% of our mutual 
fund assets under management (aum) 
were outperforming the median over 
three years. this helped us to achieve 
net inflows of £5.5bn, contributing to an 
increase in aum of 24% to £50.2bn. financial
the growth in aum was the primary 
driver of the 19% increase in net 
management fees to £392.4m. our efficient platform and 
operating model helped turn revenue 
growth into underlying earnings per 
share of 34.2p, up 16%. we are a leader in the uk mutual 
fund market and have a growing presence in our chosen european and 
asian locations. this 
included 34 people located in europe 
and asia providing in‑ country support 
for our international business growth. new clients came from 
across an increasingly broad distribution 
network of partners with wider 
geographical reach. jupiter has a strong culture and a 
set of values that are central to our 
business. in turn, 
growing our aum increases our revenues 
and profits, allowing us to invest for 
continued growth as well as rewarding 
employees and adding value for 
shareholders through ordinary and 
special dividends and capital 
appreciation. in order to provide shareholders with 
a smoother flow of returns, we 
rebalanced the dividend this year 
towards the interim. this will be paid at the same time as 
the full‑ year dividend. special dividends 
enable us to deliver returns to our 
shareholders sooner rather than later, 
using cash we do not need to hold 
for other purposes and we remain 
committed to this policy. active fund management
on the planet to perform
jupiteronline.com
on the planet to perform
jupiter fund management plc
on the planet to perform
active fund management
on the planet to perform
jupiteronline.com
on the planet to perform
jupiter fund management plc
on the planet to perform
jupiter
annual report and accounts 2017
jupiter fund management plc annual report and accounts 2017 contents
strategic report
01  highlights
04 chairman’s introduction
05 chief executive’s review
06 our markets
10 our business model
14 strategic objectives
18 managing our risks
22 our strategic performance
28 financial review
32 corporate responsibility
governance
38  chairman’s introduction
40 the governance framework
42 board of directors
50 nomination committee report
52 audit and risk committee report
59 remuneration report
92 directors’ report
96  directors’ responsibility and 
compliance statements
financial statements
98  section 1: results for the year
108 section 2: consolidated statement of cash flows
110 section 3: assets and liabilities
116 section 4: equity
118 section 5: other notes
other information
132 section 6: company financial statements
138 independent auditors’ report
what we offer
we enable 
individuals and 
institutions to access 
this outperformance 
through a variety of 
savings products. earlier in the year we announced 
changes to pricing for our uk unit trusts 
and that jupiter would meet the cost of 
research used in our fund management 
process. the board reaffirmed 
the strategic direction of the group. board and governance
we were delighted to welcome roger 
yates as a non‑ executive director in 
october 2017. roger led henderson’s 
successful global expansion and has 
over a decade of non‑ executive 
experience on the boards of uk financial 
services companies.