however, significant progress 
has been made in developing demand for our 
cfqds; an increasing number of manufacturers are 
now producing demonstration displays incorporating 
our technology and we are confident that sales will 
result as these move into commercial production. •
we now have the supply chain and the 
technology to support the development 
of the emerging market in cfqds for 
the display industry. we now have the supply chain 
and the technology to support the development of 
the emerging market in cfqds for the display industry. however, that headcount reduction has not 
impacted the group’s ability to manufacture 
product and sell its technology or its ability to 
develop next generation ip and product. summary
 •
an increasing number of manufacturers 
are now producing demonstration displays 
incorporating our technology. this involves computer 
simulation modelling and multiple film samples to best fit the 
customer’s display system. we remain very 
excited about the potential for our technology both 
in display and in our emerging life sciences and 
specialised lighting developments. display market
the market in display for cfqds continues to grow, 
driven by the increasing appetite for enhanced 
colour and brightness and the penetration of 
ultra-high-definition (“uhd”) tvs. a bright future
annual report and accounts 2017
nanoco group plc – annual report and accounts 2017 forward-looking statements
the disclosures in this annual report for nanoco group plc 
("the company") and its subsidiaries ("nanoco" or "the 
group") contain certain forward‑looking statements. strategic report
highlights 01
at a glance 02
chairman’s statement 04
chief executive officer’s statement 06
our business model 10
our markets 12
our strategy 14
our key performance indicators 16
principal risks and uncertainties 18
viability statement 20
financial review 22
sustainability 25
corporate governance
board of directors 32
corporate governance statement 34
nominations committee report 37
audit committee report 38
remuneration committee report 41
directors’ remuneration report 43
directors’ report 60
statement of directors’ responsibilities 64
financial statements
independent auditor’s report 65
consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income 71
consolidated statement of changes in equity 72
company statement of changes in equity 72
statement of financial position 73
cash flow statements 74
notes to the financial statements 75
investor information ibc
a bright future... 
the future is cfqd®
find out more about us online at 
www.nanocotechnologies.com strategic report corporate governance financial statements
01
nanoco group plc – annual report and accounts 2017
highlight s
display
 •
hybrid commercial model in display established: direct sales of own manufactured  
product and multiple non-exclusive licences
 •
ten-fold increase in manufacturing capacity at runcorn and reduction in product costs
 •
first commercial sales orders received
 •
substantial pipeline of commercial opportunities – focused  
on television and monitor projects with near term potential
 •
signed development and commercialisation deal 
with kyulux focused on cfqd/oled hybrid display
 •
operating cost base reduced significantly
solar
 •
decision taken to divest and process ongoing
life sciences and lighting
 •
new grant awarded for work on pancreatic cancer and excellent progress  
made in research in medical applications
financial results
 •
revenue and other operating income for the year was £1.6 million (2016: £0.8 million)  
and the loss after tax was £9.1 million (2016: £10.6 million)
 •
cash and cash on deposit at 31 july 2017 was £5.7 million (2016: £14.5 million)
post balance sheet events
 •
net proceeds of £8 million following a placing in november 2017 significantly  
strengthens cash balance and removes immediate going concern issues
 •
successful exhibition of televisions containing nanoco fine color film
tm
 at touch taiwan 
 •
in september 2017, a commercial supply and license agreement was finalised with 
a us corporation in the field of medical devices for the treatment of pain, soft tissue 
injury and dermatological conditions such as acne and skin anti-ageing
2017
£5.7m
2017
£1.3m
2016
£14.5m
2016
£0.5m
cash and short-term deposits revenue
* “total billings” is the sum of invoices raised for revenue, other operating income  
and deferred revenue (see page 23 for reconciliation to income statement). no dividend is proposed for the year 
(2016: none). gordon hall retired as a non-executive director of 
nanoco on 31 january 2017, after eight years on the 
board. nanoco undertakes no obligation to revise or update 
any forward‑ looking statement to reflect events or 
circumstances after the date of the annual report. the board has decided that the solar assets are 
non-core and has commenced a process to divest 
these assets. nanoco benefits from an exceptional, multi-national 
team and the board is enormously appreciative of 
its contributions and loyalty in what has been a 
challenging period. following 
detailed technical discussions to establish the customer 
specification and nanoco film solution options, an iterative 
program of work is undertaken. nanoco group plc is a world leader in the research, development 
and large-scale manufacture of cadmium and heavy-metal-free 
quantum dots and semiconductor nanoparticles. solar
printable cigs solar cell
non-core assets
divesting
life sciences
cancer imaging, diagnostics, therapy 
image guided surgery
excellent proof of principle data
partnership with university college 
london and cancer research uk
grant funded
read about our markets 
pages 12-13
display
near-term revenue
multi-channel strategy
own production
wah hong sale and licence
dow and merck technology licence strategic report corporate governance financial statements
03
nanoco group plc – annual report and accounts 2017
rea sons t o inve s t
where we do it
pioneer and world 
leader in the 
development and 
production of  
cadmium-free 
quantum dots (cfqds)
extensive patent 
portfolio, c. 600 
patents granted/
pending
large 
addressable 
markets
developing  
sales pipeline
scalable “platform 
technology” with 
multiple markets and 
product applications
hybrid ip licensing 
and material  
supply model with 
multiple routes 
to market
main focus  
to date is the  
display market
strengthened 
balance sheet
3
7
4
8
1
5
2
6
we have led the development of cfqd technology with rapid improvements in quality, performance and yield. head office
manchester, uk
manufacturing
runcorn, uk
business development
usa
business development
korea
japan
taiwan 04
strategic report
introduction
it is a pleasure to introduce nanoco’s results for 
the year to 31 july 2017. this has been a challenging 
year, with slower than anticipated adoption of the 
company’s cadmium-free quantum dots (“cfqds”) 
in the display industry. the company has a compelling go-to-market 
strategy, with a partnership with taiwan’s wah hong 
industrial corporation (“wah hong”), alongside its 
two licensees, the dow chemical company (“dow”) 
and merck kgaa (“merck”). during the period, average employee 
numbers reduced to 110 (2016: 129) and have fallen 
further to approximately 80 since the year end. financial performance 
revenues and other operating income in the year 
to 31 july 2017 were £1.6 million (2016: £0.8 million) 
and the loss before tax was £10.9 million (2016: loss 
before tax of £12.6 million). cash, cash equivalents and deposits at 
the year end were £5.7 million (31 july 2016: £14.5 million; 
31 january 2017: £8.3 million). cash balances have 
increased post year end as a consequence of the 
equity raise in november 2017 of £8.0 million net of 
expenses. nanoco is a global business with its headquarters in manchester, where the group’s r&d activities are based. nanoco’s team totals 
around 80 people, most of whom are highly qualified scientists recruited from countries all around the world. we are also making good progress in life sciences 
and specialised lighting. important progress 
was made during 2017 in two of the group’s three 
other target markets: life sciences and specialised 
lighting. 2017
£9.1m
2017
£1.1m
2016
£10.6m
2016
£1.9m
loss after tax total billings* 02
strategic report
what we do
illuminating 
our technology
at a gl ance
lighting
direct sales of own manufactured product
specialised lighting focus 
horticulture 
phototherapy
we are focused on continually developing and scaling up cfqd
®
 quantum dots that are fit for purpose 
across large addressable markets. we now have a three-pronged 
go-to-market strategy which will enable us to capitalise 
on the expected demand for our cfqds. while other display oems are embracing cfqd 
technology, adoption continues to be slow due 
somewhat to protracted regulatory initiatives to restrict 
the use of cadmium. commercialisation – runcorn
nanoco’s runcorn manufacturing facility has been 
extensively enhanced to meet anticipated demand. although the board believes that the expectations 
reflected in these forward‑ looking statements are 
reasonable, it can give no assurance that these 
expectations will arise. because the expectations 
are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results may 
vary significantly from those expressed or implied by the 
forward‑ looking statements based upon a number of 
factors. such forward‑ looking statements include 
the statements under "outlook", prospects and the 
commercial success of our cfqd
®
 applications and 
other existing or future revenue‑ generating sources, 
risks related to the group’s ability or that of its 
sub‑ contractors and partners to manufacture products 
on a large scale or at all, risks related to the group’s 
and its marketing partners’ ability to market products 
on a large scale or expand market share in the face of 
changes in customer requirements, competition and 
regulatory and technological change, risks related to 
the ownership and use of intellectual property, and 
risks related to the group’s ability to manage growth. our ability to innovate keeps us at the cutting edge of technology. in addition, 
after the year end, a commercial supply and license 
agreement was won from a us medical device 
company for light therapy products for the treatment 
of pain, soft tissue injury and dermatological conditions 
such as acne and skin anti-ageing. quantum dots have favourable optical 
and physical properties compared with organic 
dyes and radioisotopes, but their use in medical 
applications has been hindered due to the 
presence of cadmium. because nanoco’s quantum 
dots are free of cadmium, they can be used in the 
human body in, for example, cancer diagnosis and 
surgical imaging. the initial focus of the division is 
on illumination of cancerous tumours to facilitate 
their surgical removal and then, with further 
development, cancer diagnosis.