our services
idh offers more than 1,400 diagnos-
tic pathology tests, ranging from 
basic blood glucose tests for diabetes 
to advanced molecular testing for 
genetic disorders. as idh maintains international-quality accreditations 
to ensure best-in-class service, we are honoured to have 
been awarded the certification for our cairo mega lab 
from the college of american pathologists (cap), widely 
considered the leader in laboratory quality assurance 
globally. idh operates the only laboratory in egypt with the dis-
tinguished cap accreditation. this has been achieved by:
•	 idh’s accreditations, which underscore the high-
quality and safety of its testing capabilities, are key 
to attracting patients. beyond organic growth, idh’s expansion plans include 
acquisitions in new middle eastern and african markets 
where its model is well-suited to capitalise on similar 
healthcare and consumer trends and capture a significant 
share of underpenetrated and highly-fragmented markets. we also expanded our footprint in africa in early 2018 
with a key strategic investment in nigeria that will 
broaden our diagnostic services suite beyond pathology 
to include radiology. we have seen more sustainable macroeconomic stability 
in egypt. whilst inflationary pressures persist, the gov-
ernment has been implementing a robust programme of 
reforms that has resulted in stronger economic growth 
and led to increased foreign direct investment with the 
improvement in general confidence. notably in early 2018, the group expanded its geographic 
footprint with an investment in nigeria, africa’s largest and 
most populous country. idh annual report 2017 6 egypt
jordan
sudan
nigeria
our brands
in egypt, idh’s largest market, the 
group’s core brands include al borg 
and al mokhtabar, each of which is 
well-known and enjoys a loyal fol-
lowing. our geography
idh’s geographic platform has expand-
ed to include four countries across the 
middle east and africa including egypt, 
sudan, jordan and nigeria
*
. we remain committed to fulfilling our business strategy 
through expanding our geographical footprint in other 
countries, both in africa and in the middle east. + 39 years
+ 1400 26 mn
383
6.4 mn
6
track record at the 
subsidiary level
internationally accredited 
diagnostic tests offered
tests completed across the 
group in 2017
operational branch labs as 
at  31 december 2017
patients served across the 
group in 2017
key brands with strong 
awareness in underserved 
markets
*
*as at january 2018. 
idh annual report 2017 4 egp 1,514  mn
egp 384 mn
dividend
in revenue in 2017, 
up 29% on 2016
in net profit in 2017, 
up 44% on 2016
of us$ 0.16 per share         
(vs. us$ 0.14 in 2016)
idh annual report 2017  5 strategic report
highlights of 2017
rose 16% to egp 540 million compared with egp 466 million in 
2016, also constrained by post-devaluation inflationary pressures. reached egp 51 million versus egp 21 million a year earlier, 
reflecting highly effective management of excess cash. operating profit interest income 
to 383 in 2017 from 354 in 2016 represented 8% annual unit growth. of us$ 0.16 (sixteen us$ cents) per share, equivalent to us$ 24 
million in total, compared with us$ 0.14 (fourteen us$ cents) 
per share, equivalent to us$ 21 million in total in 2016.
expansion of branch network recommended final dividend 
increased 29% to egp 1,514 million in 2017 from egp 1, 171 
million in 2016, driven by a combination of better pricing, 
favourable currency translation and higher volumes. idh has been a jersey-registered 
entity with a standard listing on the main market of the 
london stock exchange since may 2015. the central bank of 
egypt (cbe)’s floatation of the egyptian pound in novem-
ber 2016, with the ensuing lifting of capital controls, has 
freed up the foreign exchange market, thus improving the 
ease of doing business in the country. despite the ongoing inflationary headwinds, idh main-
tained both our profit margins and market share. we are naturally delighted 
by the recovery in our stock price. this includes offering bundled diagnostic test 
packages for lifestyle-related diseases and chronic health 
conditions; an in-house point redemption system; and bank 
partnerships for more affordable payment plans. consist-
ent with our aim to make modern medical diagnostics 
more accessible to the most resource-poor populations, 
we are eager to begin our work in nigeria. we are well posi-
tioned with our strong brands and geographic position-
ing to capitalise on the structural drivers that support 
future growth in medical diagnostic services including 
idh annual report 2017 14 large, rapidly-growing populations; a high prevalence 
of lifestyle-related medical conditions; and a growing 
health consciousness in our emerging markets. •	 the population is marked by a high disease burden, 
with high prevalence of both communicable and 
non-communicable diseases, tropical diseases, and 
lifestyle diseases such as diabetes. strategic report       02
idh at a glance   04
highlights in 2017  06
financial & operational performance  08
a note from our chairman  10
a note from our ceo  12
our  markets  16
idh’s competitive strengths & business model  24
our healthcare systems  26
our business model  28
internationally accredited test portfolio 30
growth  strategy   32
principal risks, uncertainties and their mitigation   34
financial review   40
corporate responsibility     46
corporate governance      48
board of directors  50
corporate governance  report   52
audit committee  report  58
remuneration committee  report  62
directors’ report   64
financial statements      68
cont ent s
tabl e of strategic 
report
idh is well-positioned with trusted brands, strong 
supplier relationships, and a proven asset-light 
business model to deliver high-quality medical 
diagnostics to the middle east and africa regions  strategic report
idh 
at a glance
integrated diagnostics holdings (“idh,” the “group,” or 
the “company”) is a leading consumer healthcare com-
pany with operations in egypt, jordan, sudan and nigeria. from its base of 383 branches as of 31 
december 2017, the company will continue to add labo-
ratories through a hub, spoke and spike business model 
that provides a scalable platform for efficient expansion. we are proud to be investing in nigeria alongside man 
capital llc and the ifc. whilst 
patient and test volumes gained 9% and 7%, respectively, 
the power of the group’s brands and the favourable impact 
of our tactical marketing campaigns can be seen most 
clearly in the recovery in volumes that is under way in our 
higher-margin walk-in patient category. the 
well-entrenched strength of our brands and supplier 
relationships enabled our management to successfully 
execute our business model. your management are 
constantly seeking to consolidate and maintain the prof-
itability of the business with the provision of additional 
value-added services. idh delivered ebitda growth of 18% year-on-year to egp 
602 million — despite shouldering additional corporate 
expense burdens that accompanied the implementation 
of egypt’s much-needed macroeconomic reforms. the international accreditation of our mega 
lab constructs a competitive barrier to entry to our 
markets and, as importantly, imparts an assurance of 
quality and safety that engenders strong loyalty among 
our valued corporate as well as individual customers. in jordan, the company op-
erates biolab; in sudan, ultralab and 
al mokhtabar sudan; and in nigeria, 
echo-scan
*
. in february 2018, the group’s 
central mega lab in cairo earned the distinguished 
certification of the college of american pathologists 
(cap). the mega lab, inaugurated in 2015, replaced 
two smaller, independent “ a labs” that were also cap 
certified. in 
2017, biolab performed c. 1.5 million 
tests for c. 242,000 patients, generat-
ing 6.2 average tests-per-patient com-
pared with 6.1 in 2016.
unlike al borg and al mokhtabar in 
egypt, biolab does not operate a hub, 
spoke and spike business model. a long track record for quality and safety has earned the 
group a trusted reputation, as well as internationally 
recognised accreditations for its portfolio of over 1,400 
diagnostics tests. with our long-established presence 
in egypt, together with our loyal patient base, we have 
built a considerable base of patient data whilst at all times 
maintaining strict confidentiality and privacy. we are 
delighted by the growth and strength of our subsidiaries in 
jordan and sudan, which have successfully implemented 
our business model. we 
shall be building on our recent investment in echo-scan, 
a network of radiology and diagnostic laboratories that 
has provided us with an attractive entry point into the 
country.