for example, following the floods of late 2015 we have 
continued to make excellent progress towards recovering 
the pipes, pumping stations and treatment works that were 
damaged by the winter deluge. in addition, flood damage to our thermal hydrolysis plant in 
bradford caused us to miss our performance commitment 
for renewable energy generation. in 
february, we announced a new natural flood management 
plan for the calder valley where various flood management 
initiatives will be implemented over the next ten years, 
including the planting of 200,000 trees to ‘slow the flow’  
from moorland catchments above gorpley reservoir. this forms part of a multi-agency response to the flooding 
issues faced by local communities. yorkshire water 
services limited
annual report and 
financial statements –
an integrated report
for the year ended 31 march 2017
   yorkshire water services limited    annual report and financial statements           for the year ended 31 march 2017 annual report 
and financial 
statements for  
the year ended  
31 march 2017
contents
4 about this integrated report
6 performance highlights
7 yorkshire water at a glance
9 chairman’s statement
10 chief executive’s overview
11 strategic report
11 business strategy
15 business model
17 business performance
19 trusted company
23 safe water
27 excellent catchments, rivers and coasts
31 water efficient regions 
35 sustainable resources
41 strong financial foundations
51 our approach to risk management
59 assuring the quality of this strategic report
60 governance
61 chairman’s introduction
62 board of directors
65 corporate governance report
75 nomination committee report
77 audit committee report
83 directors’ remuneration report
105 directors’ report
109 statement of directors’ responsibilities
110 independent auditors’ report
115 statutory financial statements  about this  
integrated report
we are committed to the 
concept of integrated 
reporting - continually 
enhancing our approach 
since 2014 when we 
published our first 
integrated annual report. alignment with our other publications
in parallel to this document, we also publish our annual 
performance report (apr). the apr is designed for 
customers and to meet regulatory requirements set by 
our regulator, the office of water services (ofwat). page 5
introductions – strategic report – governance – independent auditors’ report – statutory financial statements increased
total tax 
contribution
£121.6m
continuing to 
meet and exceed 
our performance 
commitments
24 of 26
an externall y verified 
leader in corporate 
responsibility 5 stars
increased
opera ting profit
£285.8m
*
highest performing 
water company in the uk 
customer services index
80 points  
out of 100
continued reduction  
in operational  
emissions, to lowest 
recorded levels 
307 kt co
2
e
the first uk  
wa ter company 
to achieve the
national  
equality standard
(2015/16: £363*) *revised from previously published £360, see page 42 for more
(2015/16: £118.9m) see page 46 for more
(2015/16: 24 of 26) see page 17 for more
business in the community corporate responsibility index (2015/16: 4.5 stars) 
(2015/16: 353 kt co 2e) see page 37 for more
see page 36 for more
(2015/16: 77) see page 20 for more
(2015/16: £275.2m) *excluding exceptional items, see page 42 for more
average bills 
second lowest 
in the country, 
increased by less 
than infla tion
£366
ta x
performance highlights
page 6 chesterfield
key
 operational boundary 
 water service
 operational boundary 
 sewerage service
skipton
bradford
leeds
wakefield
selby
york
hull
bridlington
filey
scarborough
malton
northallerton
leyburn
harrogate
sheffield
doncaster
goole
withernsea
yorkshire water at a glance
we provide some of life’s 
most essential services to the 
people and businesses of the 
yorkshire and humberside 
region, playing a key role in 
the region’s health, wellbeing 
and prosperity. integrated reporting has become modern best practice 
for annual reporting, adopted by a growing community 
of organisations that have recognised that strategy, risk, 
performance and sustainability are inseparable and are  
integral to an organisation’s success. the international integrated reporting council (irrc) define 
an integrated report as “a concise communication about how 
an organisation’s strategy, governance, performance and 
prospects, in the context of its external environment, lead to 
the creation of value in the short, medium and long-term” . find out more about integrated reporting at: www.theiirc.org 
changes to this year’s annual report and 
financial statements
we continue to evolve our annual report to meet latest 
business, stakeholder and legislative requirements, to follow 
best practice, and to embed the principles of the integrated 
approach. we make clear what assurance 
route has been used for each report included within this 
annual report and financial statements (arfs). •  halcrow is our external independent technical 
assurance provider. demonstrating resilience
despite our strong performance, we are not complacent. we are also continuing to ensure the long-term financial 
resilience of our business. our vision 
captures our ambition to go beyond regulatory requirements 
and our commitment to long-term sustainability. find more on pages 41 to 50
•  customer bills were the second lowest in the water industry, and on average were 
increased by less than the rate of inflation. find more on pages 41 to 50
•  customer bills were the second lowest in the water industry, and on average were 
increased by less than the rate of inflation. 67% response rate. achieve a 
response rate of 
70% and improve 
average score by 
at least 1%
*  more information on our performance commitments is provided in our annual performance report, and a separate report shows latest performance against 
all our sbo commitments. we summarise our latest 
improvements across. in the apr we specifically 
describe how we are delivering our regulated investment 
plan and service commitments. enhancing customer service
in 2016/17, we met or exceeded 24 of our 26 performance 
commitments – the priorities we agreed with our customers, 
stakeholders and regulators at the last price review. this solid performance was delivered against the backdrop of 
transformational change as we separated yorkshire water into 
retail and wholesale entities to make the successful transition 
to the new non-household retail market on 1 april 2017. 
both yorkshire water and our new retail arm, yorkshire water 
business services, are performing well in the new 
market place. this year we have:
•  included more information to explain how we assure the 
contents of this publication. we have also reviewed 
our reporting of key performance indicators (kpis) to clarify 
those which are regulatory and to report the headlines 
of our ambition to go further, with links to further 
information on our website. •  expanded our explanation of risk, introducing a ‘heat map’ 
and showing risk movement in the year. •  added an ‘at a glance’ section in the directors’ 
remuneration report. the flooding contributed to 
a reduction in compliance with our waste water treatment 
works discharge permits down from 99.32% to 97.61%. we achieved our performance commitment for pollution 
incidents in 2016/17, continuing the long-term trend of 
reducing the number of ‘serious’ (category 1 and 2) pollution 
incidents caused by our assets or operations. •  more to do to reduce numbers of complaints and improve from 
prescribed status in ofwat’s company monitoring framework (cmf). 83.4 points out of 100 in sim (82.6)*
80 points out of 100 in ukcsi (77)
#
5 out of 5 stars in the bitc corporate 
responsibility index (4.5)
#
drive continual improvement in customer 
service, especially on the waste water side 
of the business. we do this by supplying water and waste water services, 
and being custodians of essential infrastructure and the 
natural environment. we do all of this for about £1 a day for the average  
customer, amongst the lowest water and waste water  
bills in the country. for 
example, we met our annual leakage reduction target, 
reduced the number of serious pollution incidents and 
continued to deliver excellent quality drinking water. this 
will ensure the more effective, efficient and sustainable 
management of sludge in the yorkshire region for decades to 
come, as well as making us more self-sufficient in renewable 
energy generation. our sbo programme includes a suite  
of annual targets on activities that drive us towards  
medium-term milestones and long-term deliverables. each sbo section starts with a table summarising 
the performance commitments and headlines from activity 
driven by our sbo programme. co-develop our 
future programme. •  work underway to update our drought plan and wrmp ready for consultation  
later in 2017.