british standard 
8472, astm d6954, uae 5009:2009, afnor ac t51-808 and  
saso standards. symphony environmental technologies plc annual report & accounts 2017  |  www.symphonyenvironmental.com 05
over the years we have established a strong distribution 
network with 74 distributors worldwide. n deva, dl, frsa, mep 
chairman 
13 march 2018
profit before tax increased  
by 249% to £0.43 million chief executive’s review
michael laurier
symphony environmental technologies plc annual report & accounts 2017  |  www.symphonyenvironmental.com 06
although europe is not currently an important market 
for d
2
w, we note that the eu commission have taken an 
interest in oxo-biodegradable plastic and have asked the 
european chemicals agency (“echa”) to consider its 
environmental credentials. symphony was the first 
company to be awarded the saso quality mark for 
its d
2
w oxo-biodegradable additives and to achieve 
authorised-supplier status for the saudi arabian market. our d
2
w oxo-biodegradable 
(obp) controlled-life masterbatch was the first 
technology of this type to be awarded an  
eco-label, distinguishing it from all similar 
products on the market. d
2
w is fully consistent with the principles of 
“reduce”, “re-use” and “recycle”. symphony has also developed a range of plastic 
technologies under the d
2
p (designed to protect) 
brand, offering extra protection from bacteria, 
insects, fungi, algae, odour, fouling, and fire. in 
addition to these, we have recently developed 
a corrosion inhibitor and a range of products 
specifically designed for food packaging. we therefore welcome the reference to 
echa. symphony and the oxo-biodegradable plastics 
association will be assisting echa with all necessary 
technical information, but we do not expect any 
conclusions for some time. in preparing these annual report and accounts, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether applicable ifrss or uk accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the annual report and accounts; and
•  prepare the annual report and accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
company and group will continue in business. the directors confirm that:
•   so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditor is  
unaware; and
•  the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information. •  meet all the relevant international standards, with proven performance in 
terms of degradation, biodegradation and eco-toxicity - i.e. no toxic residues and no microplastics
several countries in africa, asia and the middle east have already legislated  
to require everyday plastic items to be made with oxo-biodegradable 
technology, because it works. in compliance 
with fda food and drug administration, 
usa and efsa (european food safety 
authority) requirements. typically used in 
mosquito nets, agriculture, horticulture, 
forestry and home applications. 03 symphony environmental technologies plc annual report & accounts 2017  |  www.symphonyenvironmental.com
financial statements business review corporate governance
antibacterial  
fights healthcare and food industry 
infections. enforcement of the legislation commenced 
during 2017.
financial statements business review corporate governance
the overall results highlight the operational gearing of 
the group. as an organisation we are 
committed to the wider community 
and regularly support charities 
and fundraisers. we currently have two staff 
members completing nvq 
qualifications in accountancy 
and office administration and 
two students gaining valuable 
experience in our laboratory as they 
complete their one-year placement 
which is an essential part of their 
science degree courses. plastic is vital for 
our food chain because foods are safer and 
stay fresher when protected in plastic, and this 
reduces food waste. these 
include an oxygen absorber, ethylene adsorber, 
odour-adsorber and a release-agent to prevent 
food sticking to the inside of packaging. • are suitable for food contact according to fda and eu food  
 contact regulations
   • can be recycled with conventional polymer and can be made from recyclate. d
2
w products include:
• bin liners
• bottles, tubs and cups
• bubble wrap
• carrier bags
• cling film
• food packets
• frozen food packaging
• garbage sacks
• gloves and aprons
•  newspaper and  
magazine wrappers
• paint ball spheres
• pallet wrap
• parachutes
• shrink wrap
d
2
w – making plastic smarter overview
d
2
p is a suite of masterbatches which offer extra protection from bacteria, insects, fungi, 
algae, odour, fouling and fire. this year we held 
events to support the macmillan 
cancer charity, and noah’s ark 
children’s hospice, as well as taking 
part in sponsored events and a 
beach clean-up in ghana. ghana beach cleanup board of directors
symphony environmental technologies plc annual report & accounts 2017  |  www.symphonyenvironmental.com 10
nirj deva, dl, frsa, mep
chairman of the board 
background and experience
nirj deva has been a member of the european parliament since 1999 and is 
vice-chairman of the parliament’s international development committee. he is also chairman of the eu-china friendship group. from 1992 to 1997 he 
was a member of the uk parliament. foreign exchange 
rates fluctuate and, as such, assets created in foreign currencies are liable to constant revaluations into their sterling 
equivalent. the group mitigates this risk by purchasing, where practicable, in currencies to match revenues. there is a risk of price volatility 
and material availability. having 
reviewed the cash flow forecasts and the available headroom within existing facilities the directors believe that the 
group has sufficient cash resources to meet debt obligations as they fall due. plastic waste is a global problem which is now 
dominating the media and concentrating the 
minds of legislators, companies, ngos and 
scientists around the world. this is really significant, as 
one third of the food produced each year  
is wasted. opponents of plastic have yet to find a viable 
alternative which goes anywhere near performing 
as well as plastic for most applications, and have 
themselves raised concerns about food safety 
and food waste. it is also the 
best technology available for our customers,  
for consumers and for the protection of  
the environment. annual report
symphony environmental technologies plc 2017
and accounts symphony environmental technologies plc annual report & accounts 2017  |  www.symphonyenvironmental.com
business review
01 highlights
02 symphony at a glance
04 chairman’s statement
06 chief executive’s review
08 2017 roundup
09 corporate social responsibility
corporate governance
10 board of directors
12 strategic report
13 directors’ report
15 remuneration report
financial statements
16 independent auditor’s report
19 consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
20 consolidated statement  
of financial position
21 consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
22 consolidated cash flow statement
23 notes to the annual report and accounts
43 company balance sheet
44 company statement of changes in equity
45 notes to the company balance sheet
49 company information
 
 symphony is a world leader in controlled-life 
plastic, and supplies masterbatches and finished 
plastic products. financial highlights:
 
revenues increased by 21.6% to £8.27 million (2016: £6.80 million) 
 
gross profit increased by 17.8% to £4.01 million (2016: £3.41 million)
 
ebitda before r&d increased by 57.9% to £1.20 million (2016: £0.76 million)
 
profit before tax increased by 249.6% to £0.43 million (2016: £0.12 million)
 
profit after tax increased by 156.0% to £0.43 million (2016: £0.17 million) 
 
basic earnings per share increased to 0.28p (2016: 0.11p)
 
cash generated from operations £1.03 million (2016: cash used £0.34 million)
 
improved working capital position with net cash of £0.63 million (2016: net debt  
£0.37 million)
 
distributable reserves of £0.07 million (2016: retained deficit £3.97 million)
operational highlights:
 
 saudi standards, metrology and quality organisation (“saso”) started  
enforcing legislation requiring the use of oxo-biodegradable plastic
 
 symphony was the first organisation to be awarded the saso quality mark for  
its d
2
w oxo-biodegradable additives and to achieve authorised supplier status  
for the saudi arabian market
 
 launched d
2
p anti-microbial gloves into wilko in the uk and several retail outlets in italy
 
 launched d
2
p anti-microbial masterbatch for use in water pipes in pakistan
 
 continued significant investment in r&d
01 symphony environmental technologies plc annual report & accounts 2017  |  www.symphonyenvironmental.com
for more information visit: 
www.symphonyenvironmental.com
financial statements business review corporate governance
symphony at  
a glance
chairman’s 
statement
04
board of  
directors
10
chief 
executive’s 
review
06
highlights 2017
02 an international company, with presence  
in nearly 100 countries worldwide 
symphony at a glance
our product information
02 symphony environmental technologies plc annual report & accounts 2017  |  www.symphonyenvironmental.com
www.symphonyenvironmental.com/d2w 
www.symphonyenvironmental.com/what-is-d2w-2
the addition of d
2
w turns ordinary polymer (at the end of its useful life and  
in the presence of oxygen) into a material which is biodegradable in the  
open environment. revenues for the year increased by 21.6% to £8.27 
million (2016: £6.80 million), with gross profits increasing 
by 17.8% to £4.01 million (2016: £3.41 million). the 
improved revenue was due to increased sales of d
2
w 
oxo-biodegradable plastic additives in several markets.