the company has built up 
relationships with a number of key opinion leaders over the years 
and so we have a voice that enables us to input into key stakeholder 
meetings. two initiatives will 
help support the ongoing work to extend the menu beyond the 
initial launch panel, ensuring we enhance our product offering 
on a continuous basis. we have explored a number of routes in the last 
year on how best to take the partnership forward. i believe we 
have now agreed the main outline terms which should enable 
the formal contract negotiations to proceed and we thank 
shareholders for their patience during this process. we have been invited to attend the ninth international 
aids society conference on hiv science (ias 2017) to be held in 
paris in late july where visitect
®
 cd4 will be showcased. this has resulted in a series 
of regional workshops being held across the african continent 
that omega diagnostics has been invited to attend and participate 
in. infectious disease revenues
15
16
17
£2.5m
£2.5m
£2.6m
for more on infectious diseases 8 omega diagnostics group plc 14
our people
motivating, developing
and recognising our people
we are committed to attracting and retaining the right people 
and have a strong and dedicated team. celebrate success 
and have fun together. the group develops, manufactures and 
sells allergy tests for over 600 allergens. the autoimmune panel is a range 
of enzyme immunoassay (eia) tests for the 
detection and quantification of multiple 
autoimmune diseases. the group specialises in a range of 
diagnostic kits for infectious diseases, in 
particular for syphilis, febrile antigens and 
latex serology tests. enzyme immunoassays 
are available for a variety of viral, bacterial 
and fungal infections, complemented by 
a diverse selection of agglutination, 
fluorescence and rapid tests. october 2016
ce-marked our allergy launch 
panel comprising 41 allergens 
which are now available for sale. located in alva, clackmannanshire, scotland, 
omega diagnostics limited manufactures 
and sells a range of immunoassay tests, 
predominantly for infectious diseases, as 
well as developing and manufacturing 
allersys
®
 and visitect
®
 cd4. cambridge devon alva
located in reinbek, germany, omega 
diagnostics gmbh manufactures and sells 
a range of allergen tests, as well as developing 
the allergodip
®
 product range. in january, we announced that we received certificates of 
accreditation from bsi confirming our quality management 
system is compliant with iso 9001:2008 and iso 13485:2003. 
in march, we confirmed the facility underwent an annual inspection 
from the indian fda, confirming that the facility is compliant with 
gmp processes for manufacturing, testing, storage and qa, and 
that we were issued with a manufacturing licence which is valid 
until january 2021.
we also announced that we were successful in ce-marking 
and launching our visitect
®
 range of malaria tests comprising: 
 – visitect
®
 malaria pf (detection of hrp2 antigen in p. falciparum);
 – visitect
®
 malaria pf/pan (detection of p. falciparum,  
non-p. falciparum or mixed infections); and
 – visitect
®
 malaria pf/pv (detection and differentiation 
of p. falciparum and p. vivax). omega diagnostics group plc
annual report and group financial statements 2017
because
health matters page title continued
sub title
operational highlights
• scottish enterprise grant funding of £1.8 million secured towards planned expansion of allersys
®
 menu
• ce mark achieved for 41 allergens to run on ids-isys platform
• four new allergodip
®
 panels now optimised
• recruitment of skilled project managers and leaders into scientific teams
• food intolerance division continues its strong performance
• formal design freeze attained with our visitect
®
 cd4 test
• ce mark achieved for visitect
®
 malaria tests to be manufactured at our facility in pune
*  the group defines adjusted profit before taxation as statutory profit before tax and amortisation of intangible assets, share-based payment charges and 
ifrs-related discount charges. contents
strategic report
ifc  operational and financial highlights
02 at a glance
04 chairman’s statement
06 our business model
07 our strategy
08 chief executive’s review
11 products and markets overview
14 our people
16 risks and risk management
18 financial review
governance
20 board of directors
22 corporate governance report
24  directors’ remuneration report
26 directors’ report
27  statement of directors’ responsibilities
financial statements
28 independent auditors’ report
29  c o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t 
of comprehensive income
30 consolidated balance sheet
31  c o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t 
of changes in equity
32  consolidated cash flow statement
33 company balance sheet
34  c o m p a n y s t a t e m e n t 
of changes in equity
35 company cash flow statement
36 notes to the financial statements
59 notice of annual general meeting
60  notes to the notice of annual 
general meeting
61 advisers
omega diagnostics group plc
omega diagnostics group plc
@omegadiagnostic
find up-to-date information at
www.omegadiagnostics.com omega diagnostics group plc 02
25+75+c 25+56+19+c 25+56+19+c at a glance
25% 56% 19%
a leading company in the fast 
growing area of immunoassay, 
with a global presence in over 
100 countries
infectious 
disease
food 
intolerance
allergy and 
autoimmune
revenue share
£3.6m
revenue share
£8.0m
revenue share
£2.6m
main products:
 − allergozyme
®
 − allergodip
®
 − allersys
®
 − genesis elisa
main products:
 − genarrayt
®
/foodprint
®
 − food detective
®
 − cns laboratory service
main products:
 − immutrep
®
 syphilis
 − micropath
®
 bacterial tests
 − visitect
®
 malaria
our range of products
omega diagnostics group plc’s subsidiaries provide high quality in-vitro diagnostics (ivd) 
products for use in hospitals, blood banks, clinics and laboratories in over 100 countries and 
specialise in the areas of allergy and autoimmune, food intolerance and infectious diseases. david evans 
non-executive chairman
i am pleased to be able to 
report progress on a number of 
activities within our operations, 
which i have outlined below www.omegadiagnostics.com annual report and group financial statements 2017 05
strategic report
our commercialisation objectives are closely aligned with our 
partner company ids, which is the manufacturer of the automated 
instrument over which we have exclusive rights to develop and sell 
our allergy tests. whilst ids 
previously expressed an interest in acquiring the allergy business, 
we both subsequently concluded that our mutual objectives were 
better served with an enlarged distribution model. it has more than 20 years’ experience 
in the development of products for the 
diagnosis of allergies and a substantial 
understanding and knowledge in the 
production and standardisation of allergen 
extracts. the group provides a range of tests 
and instrumentation associated with 
food intolerance and gut health. based 
on quantifying total immunoglobulin g (igg) 
reactions to over 220 different foods, these 
tests are designed to support both health 
practitioners and individuals who wish to 
make informed decisions when managing 
their health. we continually assess the market landscape for this product and it 
seems clear that there is an increasing emphasis on the continued 
need for monitoring cd4 levels in people living with hiv, particularly 
those patients with low cd4 counts who are at significant risk of 
contracting opportunistic infections. sales (£m)
£14.2m
 12%
gross profit (£m)
£9.2m
 13%
gross profit (%)
64.7%
 0.9%
financial highlights
adjusted profit before tax (£m)*
£1.1m
 16%
15
16
17
12.1
12.7
14.2
15
16
17
7.7
8.1
9.2
15
16
17
63.4
63.8
64.7
15
16
17
1.4
1.4
1.1
continuing our progress 
with accelerated growth
october 2015
opened manufacturing facility 
in pune, india. financial performance
group revenue grew by 12% to £14.2 million (2016: £12.7 million) 
with growth in revenue across all three business sectors. as a 
predominantly export business, we benefited from a weaker sterling 
throughout the year, which added £1.1 million to reported revenues 
(2016: £0.2 million). on a constant currency basis, revenue would 
have been ahead of last year by 3%. devices from these batches were tested at 
three uk hospital sites, on sufficient numbers of patient samples 
to demonstrate that we now have a method for manufacturing 
devices which consistently meets our design goal specifications 
regarding sensitivity and specificity. this is an important phase in the project and 
we will give ourselves sufficient time to demonstrate that we can 
transfer the product from development to routine manufacturing. these products are currently available for general sale through 
business-to-business channels in those countries which do not 
require individual product registration and we are in the process 
of being evaluated for additional regulatory approvals to enable 
the company to participate in higher volume tender business. secondly, we have 
invested in creating our own in-house protein purification capability 
which will help in the optimisation programme of certain allergens 
that require a higher degree of characterisation to match the 
performance of the market leader. august 2016
secured a scottish enterprise 
research and development 
grant of £1.8 million. november 2016
accelerated recruitment of 
skilled project managers and 
leaders into our scientific team. january 2017
gained iso accreditation 
for manufacturing facility 
in pune, india. operational and financial highlights
for more information on 
the new facility in pune
3 www.omegadiagnostics.com annual report and group financial statements 2017 01
strategic report
march 2017
ce mark achieved for visitect
®
 
range of malaria tests. we believe that this measure of performance eliminates factors which distort period-on-period comparisons in order to provide a 
more comparable position year on year. we believe this information is useful to shareholders and analysts in providing a basis for measuring our financial performance. november 2015
initiated business plan to 
accelerate growth across all 
three operating segments. www.omegadiagnostics.com annual report and group financial statements 2017 03
strategic report
 countries where our products are distributed
 countries where we have a direct presence
our global presence
a global reach allows the group to benefit from fast growing economies 
in emerging markets while simultaneously mitigating challenging economic 
and political instability in certain regions of the world.