page 44
for more information
£50,000+
raised by tt for charities globally
supporting our local communities and charities close 
to our employees. on behalf of the board, i would like to thank the 
transportation leadership team for their contribution to tt and wish 
them well in their new home with avx corporation. i have been particularly pleased 
to see our improved customer focus reflected in a number of new 
contract wins (see page 8 and pages 30–35). you can read more about 
the offer on page 9 and page 81. 
our people
we are a people business, and the strong business 
performance achieved would not be possible without the hard 
work and commitment of our people across our global operations. our global footprint provides reach into our key 
markets and enables us to serve our customers 
effectively and efficiently. our ability to 
execute major organisational and portfolio change together with 
improved financial capacity positions us well to invest and grow the 
remaining tt group. progress has been made on tt’s strategy 
to build leading positions in markets with structural growth drivers 
where there is increasing electronic content. our strategic focus on 
enhancing our business development, value-added product solutions 
and operational excellence, we believe, are the right areas to take tt 
to the next level. transforming our group
tt electronics plc 
annual report and accounts 2017
tt electronics plc annual report and accounts 2017 “we are delighted with both the strong 
trading performance and the disposal of 
the transportation division. page 25
for more information contents
 02
tt electronics at a glance
30
divisional review
 04
chairman’s statement
 06
chief executive’s  
strategic review
10
growth and  
performance drivers
40
corporate responsibility
2–45 
strategic report
ifc
1
 headline performance
po
2
 our year in review
02 tt electronics at a glance 
04 chairman’s statement
06  chief executive’s strategic review 
10 growth and performance drivers
12 market review
14  our markets
18 our business model and strategy
20  our differentiators
24 key performance indicators
26  risk management
28 principal risks and uncertainties
30 divisional review 
36 financial review
40 corporate responsibility
46–85
governance and directors’ report
46 chairman’s introduction to governance
48 board of directors and company secretary 
50 executive management board
52  directors’ report 
56  nominations committee 
57 accountability
58  audit committee 
62  directors’ remuneration report 
64  directors’ remuneration policy 
71  directors annual remuneration report
81  other statutory disclosures 
85  statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
annual report and financial statements 
86–144
financial statements
86  independent auditor’s report to the members 
of tt electronics plc 
92  consolidated income statement 
93  consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
94  consolidated statement of financial position
95  consolidated statement of changes in equity 
96  consolidated cash flow statement 
97  notes to the consolidated financial statements 
135 company statement of financial position 
136 company statement of changes in equity
137 notes to the company financial statements 
143 five-year record
144–146
additional information
all metrics in the strategic report have been restated  
to reflect the continuing operations of the group unless 
otherwise stated. (1) inside front cover 
(2) pull-out
01 annual report and accounts 2017 tt electronics plc www.ttelectronics.com
strategic report financial statements governance and directors’ report additional information 24%
18%
27%
31%
tt electronics at a glance
well-positioned  
to serve our 
customer base
tt electronics is a global provider of engineered 
electronics for performance‑ critical applications. group revenue (2017)
39%
group revenue (2017)
18%
group revenue (2017)
43%
03 annual report and accounts 2017 tt electronics plc www.ttelectronics.com
strategic report financial statements governance and directors’ report additional information chairman’s statement
a pivotal year 
for tt
neil carson
chairman
2017 has been a pivotal year for tt. page 6 
for more information
strategic partnership and 
multi‑year contracts won
strategic partnership and multi-year contracts won 
with a us aerospace and defence oem in our global 
manufacturing solutions division. page 34 
for more information
 16
new products launched in 2017
including four new products launched in the current 
sensing, circuit protection and signal conditioning 
business, responding to customer demand for smaller 
and lighter components, and extended capabilities 
to protect circuits from greater power surges. page 25
for more information extending our capabilities 
following outsourced product lines 
from a global engine manufacturer
we have launched a range of new devices used in 
flight critical aerospace applications. page 32
for more information
acquisition
in the first half of the year we acquired cletronics, 
a small us based manufacturer of electromagnetic 
components for the aerospace industry. industrial machines and robotics are capable 
of handling input materials, work-in-progress goods 
and finished products with increasing precision, speed 
and flexibility with market demand growing for even 
more dextrous capabilities to adjust to situational 
variations. this requires sensors and controls to be ever 
more precise, as well as interconnected, capabilities 
that we have at tt. the 
medical market is experiencing increased demand for 
more sophisticated diagnostic, imaging and monitoring 
equipment as a result of a constant drive towards 
improved patient safety. sensors and controls that enable a variety of 
equipment and devices have a key role to play in the 
transformation towards “healthcare 4.0”. page 41
for more information
improvement in 
safety performance
we have again reduced the number of lost 
time accidents. under strong 
leadership, the transportation division has made significant progress, 
delivering good sales growth and positive operating margins in tt’s 
last year of ownership. the board believes that this was the right 
time to realise the value for the division, following the turnaround 
in performance. i have been delighted to see the strong performance of the 
remaining business. by prioritising strong cash performance, including targeting 
80%+ cash conversion, we are able to continue to invest in 
r&d to support growth while improving roic and maintaining 
a progressive dividend policy. we have put ourselves in 
a strong position to realise tt’s 
potential and drive growth and 
value for shareholders.”
improving 
roic
targeted, complementary 
acquisitions
progressive dividend  
policy
organic growth ahead  
of the market
cash conversion  
of 80%+
r&d investment to  
support growth
operating margin progression
05 annual report and accounts 2017 tt electronics plc www.ttelectronics.com
strategic report financial statements governance and directors’ report additional information chief executive’s strategic review
a year of portfolio 
transformation and 
strong profitable 
growth
richard tyson
chief executive officer
2017 was a significant year for tt with strong revenue and profit 
growth ahead of expectations. strategic progress
in 2017 we successfully transformed the portfolio while delivering 
strong organic profitable growth:
• portfolio transformation: with the disposal of the 
transportation division, tt is becoming a higher margin, higher 
quality business, with increased financial capacity to accelerate 
growth through capital investments and acquisitions. under strong leadership, the transportation 
division made significant progress:
• turned-around and returned to profit;
• re-focused r&d efforts on sensing and control for safety, 
fuel efficiency and emission control;
• achieved sales success in faster growing geographies; and
• broadened its customer base. tt is becoming 
a higher margin, higher quality business 
with increased investment capacity to 
accelerate growth.”
richard tyson
chief executive officer
headline performance*
revenue
£360.0m
2016: £332.7m 
+5%
2
free cash flow
3,5
£4.7m
2016: £13.8m 
-66%
underlying eps
1
10.9p
2016: 7.8p 
+30%
2
eps
9.7p
2016: 7.3p 
+23%
2
net funds/(debt)
£47.0m
2016: £(55.4)m 
+185%
underlying operating profit
1
£24.3m
2016: £20.6m 
+12%
2
operating profit
£20.0m
2016: £18.8m 
+1%
2
dividend
4
5.8p
2016: 5.6p* 
+4%
strategic progress
 — portfolio transformation: disposal of transportation 
division for £123.2 million in october 2017
 — pivotal year for tt with strong revenue and 
profit growth
 — realising benefits of management actions started 
in 2015 
• increased customer focus: new customer wins 
and sales to existing customers;
• new products launched: increased r&d 
investment underpinning future growth; and 
• continuing be lean activities: benefits to our 
operations and customer performance 
 — all three divisions delivered organic revenue growth 
 — recommended cash offer for stadium group plc 
announced in february 2018
financial headlines
 — 5% organic revenue growth from good sales 
performance and increased market demand
 — underlying operating profit up 12%, pbt up 28% 
at constant currency
 — underlying operating margins increased to 6.8%, 
up by 60 basis points
 — excellent underlying cash conversion at 98% 
 — 140 basis points increase in return on invested 
capital to 10.6%
* continuing operations
(1) underlying change before restructuring costs and acquisition cost
(2) change at constant currency calculated by comparing current year 
actual results to the prior year results retranslated at current year 
actual exchange rates
(3) net cash flow from operating activities less net cash flow from 
investing activities less interest paid
(4) interim dividend combined with final proposed dividend 
(5) free cash flow includes cash flow from discontinued operations highlights
our year in review
read more about what we did in 2017  
on our website www.ttelectronics.com
divestment of transportation division
transportation division sold to avx corporation 
in october 2017 for £123.2 million, creating 
increased financial capacity to continue to 
invest in tt’s future growth. we increased the cash spend 
on r&d by 4%. page 34
for more information
4%
improvement in 
employee engagement
improvement in employee engagement alongside 
excellent response rate of 87 per cent (up from 77 per cent) 
to our annual employee survey. this, when combined 
with the interim dividend of 1.75 pence per share, gives an 
increased total dividend of 5.8 pence per share for the full year 
(2016: 5.6 pence per share). our products 
include circuit protection, current sensing, 
signal conditioning, optoelectronics, and 
sensors for torque, position, pressure, 
flow and temperature. the power electronics division designs 
and manufactures specialist, high-reliability 
electronic components and sub-assemblies 
for safety-critical applications in harsh 
environments, typically supplying for 
power management, engine controls 
and connectivity systems. our solutions go into a wide 
range of end products, from medical devices, 
such as mass spectrometry detectors, to 
power control modules used in rail transport 
infrastructure, to single-box avionics solutions. the improvement was driven by the sensors 
and specialist components and power electronics divisions. page 6
for more information
£9.5m
cash spent on r&d
we remain focused on r&d investments to 
develop solutions to solve our customers’ most 
complex challenges. we have years of experience and expertise 
in engineering; and we provide electronics 
for application in the harshest environments. we design 
and manufacture highly engineered parts 
that solve customer challenges. we serve 
major global blue-chip customers in the 
aerospace and defence, industrial, and 
transportation markets, focusing on creating 
value by developing innovative electronic 
solutions to challenging problems for our 
customers’ electronic systems.