annual report and accounts 2016/17 directors and advisers
chairman
debbie hewitt
executive directors 
brian brick chief executive 
tony bennett finance director
non-executive directors
maurice helfgott senior independent non-executive director
bryan portman independent non-executive director 
zoe morgan independent non-executive director 
secretary
tony bennett 
registered office 
8 st john’s hill 
london 
sw11 1sa
stockbroker
peel hunt llp 
moor house 
120 london wall 
london  
ec2y 5et
registrars
capita asset services 
the registry 
34 beckenham road  
beckenham  
kent  
br3 4tu
auditor
deloitte llp
chartered accountants and statutory auditor
2 new street square london
ec4a 3bz
company registration number
134995 moss bros group plc annual report & accounts 2016/17 i 1 
contents
strategic report
 2 headlines
 3 chairman’s statement
 5 strategic review
 8 chief executive’s review
13 key performance indicators
14 principal risks and uncertainties
17 corporate social responsibility
directors’ report
19 board of directors
20 directors’ report
23 corporate governance report
30 directors’ responsibilities statement
32 annual statement on directors’ remuneration
34 directors’ remuneration policy
41 annual report on remuneration
accounts
53 independent auditor’s report
59 consolidated statement of comprehensive income
60 consolidated statement of changes in equity
61 consolidated statement of financial position
62 consolidated cash flow statement
63 company balance sheet
65 notes to the financial statements
shareholder information
92 notice of annual general meeting
99 form of proxy 2 i moss bros group plc shop on-line at www.mossbros.co.uk
headlines
financial highlights
• total group revenue, excluding vat, was up 5.7% on the previous year to £127.9m. moss bros group plc annual report & accounts 2016/17 i 3 
chairman’s statement
i am pleased to report another year of considerable progress for the group. the core moss bros master brand is now well established and we saw reasonable growth in each of our 
supporting sub-brands of moss london, moss 1851, and moss esq, with moss london expanding our reach 
to a younger customer, capitalising on the growing trend of occasions like school proms. we opened a further 7 stores in westﬁeld stratford city, the merry hill shopping centre, worcester, belfast, 
harrogate, newbury and on teesside. operational highlights
•  beneﬁts from ongoing investment in a strong brand identity and store reﬁt programme continue, 
delivering an environment to showcase our enhanced product range. •  e-commerce sales continue to grow, leveraging the process improvements and ‘back-end’ 
infrastructure investments made during the year. • ‘tailor me’ custom tailoring service gaining traction with customers, nationwide. in the coming year, we will leverage our roll out of ‘tailor me’, accelerate the reinvention of our hire 
offer and leverage and continue to build the infrastructure to modernise our multi-channel offer, whilst 
investing more in our colleague and service propositions. • group like-for-like* sales of £131.5m, including vat, up 5.3% (2015/16: up 8.2%):
 – like-for-like* retail sales up 6.0% (2015/16: up 7.6%)
 – like-for-like* hire sales, representing 13.7% of sales, up 1.5% (2015/16: up 11.7%)
• e-commerce sales including vat up 15.7% (2015/16: up 36.3%) now 11% of total sales
 – mobile and tablet sales growth strong and now 43% of total e-commerce sales
• proﬁt before tax up 20.3% at £7.1m (2015/16: £5.9m before exceptional items). •  ebitda** up 8.8% to £13.6m (2015/16: ebitda** £12.5m), driven by improved sales, more targeted 
discounting and tight control of costs. • gross margin improved in total for the year by 1.5% to 61.3%, due to lower levels of discounting. •  basic earnings per share of 5.51 pence, up 17% (2015/16: 4.71 pence before exceptional items, 2015/16: 
4.65 pence after exceptional items). •  strong cash balance of £19.5m (30 january 2016: £17.3m) through close management of working 
capital and notwithstanding a further £8.8m capital investment across the business. •  early responses to the spring summer 2017 range across retail and to the new hire ranges have been 
good. • we continue to grow our presence on the high street and online. • the group’s trading performance continues in line with the board’s expectations. costs remain tightly controlled with all expenditure carefully planned and monitored. the operational efﬁciency of our distribution centre based in barking is closely monitored. the strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements. these statements are made by the directors in good faith based on the information 
available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, 
including both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information. ** ebitda is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items. ** ebitda is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items. •  senior team strengthened during the year with the recruitment of a new finance director, chief 
operating ofﬁcer and customer director, driving our focus on service delivery. he will join us in april 2017. 
we have a strong and stable team of non-executive directors and continue to review our succession plans 
with rigour to be sure we manage the succession of the board and its various committees in a seamless 
way, ensuring we retain the highest levels of governance. although we recognise external macro challenges, we are well placed to leverage our specialist 
credentials and to enhance our position as ‘the ﬁrst choice for men’s tailoring’. finally, i would like to recognise the fact that we differentiate ourselves through the highest levels of 
customer service, which is the result of substantial training and hard work of all of our people. this clearly impacts lfl revenues and means that 
during the early part of the hire season we are holding a materially smaller value of deposits on a ‘cash 
taken’ basis. like-for-like hire and tailor me sales are calculated on cash receipts in the period, before adjustment for the movement in the 
level of deposits held. this increased investment 
has impacted cash in the short term as planned but the proven payback means we are achieving the 
returns predicted and we turn our attention now to maintaining and reﬁning our estate to reﬂect the more 
premium positioning of our brands amongst our target customers. like–for-like hire and tailor me sales are calculated on cash receipts in the period, before adjustment for the movement in 
the level of deposits held. cash generated 
from operating activities of £16.0m (2015/16: £11.6m). current trading
•  retail like-for-like* sales, including vat, in the ﬁrst 7 weeks of the new ﬁnancial year are up 4.3% 
(7 week period avoids a non lfl easter bank holiday in week 8 last year). •  easter, which marks the start of the wedding season, falls 3 weeks later in 2017, temporarily delaying 
some hire order collections and therefore revenues by three weeks. hire orders booked for collection in 
2017/18 are currently -1% on the previous year. actions to develop our product offer have included the growth of ‘tailor me’, which is achieving signiﬁcant 
traction as a more accessible form of bespoking, enabling a signiﬁcant proportion of our suit range to be 
personalised. the group’s vision is to be the ‘ﬁrst choice for men’s tailoring’ through creating a multi-channel menswear 
business focused on our target customer groups. there are three pillars to this strategy:
1)  implement a clear brand strategy leveraging the moss bros master brand and complementary sub-
brands. the concept 
of moss bros for hire, ready to wear or bespoke underpins our vision to be ‘the ﬁrst choice for men’s 
tailoring’.