annual  
report 
and 
accounts
year ended
31 march  
2017
company no: 06223359
annual report and accounts year ended 31 march 2017 this annual report contains forward-looking 
statements. these include, but are not limited to, 
statements regarding:    
 the growth and prospects of the digital 
advertising industry;  
 forecasts regarding internet usage and 
advertising spend; 
 
  projected levels of growth in our markets; 
 
  our expectations about the factors that  
drive business; 
 
 the growth of our business and revenues;  
 
 the potential for declines in our revenue;  
 
  our plans to continue to invest in our  
people, processes and products;  
 
 our plans to continue our current pace  
of acquisitions;  
  our investments in international  
and emerging markets and sectors;  
  estimates of future compensation expenses;  
  our plans to use funds;  
  operating expenses; and 
  other statements regarding our prospects,  
and business strategies. this report contains additional trade 
names and trademarks of other companies. neither the content of the company’s website 
(or any other website) nor the content of any website 
accessible from hyperlinks on the company’s website 
(or any other website) is incorporated into, or forms 
part of, this report. by their nature, forward-looking statements involve 
risk and uncertainty because they relate to future 
events and circumstances, including, but not limited 
to, us and uk domestic and global economic and 
business conditions, the effects of blogs and media 
coverage, the effects of continued volatility in credit 
markets, market-related risks such as changes in 
interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and 
actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, 
changes in legislation, the further development of 
standards and interpretations under international 
financial reporting standards (ifrs) applicable to 
past, current and future periods, evolving practices 
with regard to the interpretation and application of 
standards under ifrs, the outcome of pending and 
future litigation, the success of future acquisitions 
and other strategic transactions, and the impact 
of competition—a number of which are beyond 
rhythmone’s control. as used herein, “rhythmone,” “the company,” 
“the group,” “we,” “our,” and similar terms include 
rhythmone plc and its subsidiaries, unless the 
context indicates otherwise. we do 
not intend our use or display of other companies’ 
trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement 
or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any 
relationship with any of these companies. except as required by the financial conduct 
authority (fca), alternative investment market 
(aim), or applicable law, rhythmone expressly 
disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release 
publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-
 any changes in rhythmone’s expectations with 
regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions 
or circumstances on which any such statement is 
based. division ofresponsibilities
there is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the company between the running of the board, which is delegated to the
chairman, mr. raj chellaraj, and the executive responsibility for the running of the company’s business, which is delegated to the chief
executive officer, mr. subhransu (“brian”) mukherjee. rajchellaraj
based in palo alto, california, raj currently serves as the non-executive chairman of
rhythmone plc. (lse aim: rthm) he also serves as associate dean for finance and
administration at the stanford business school and as the chief operating officer at the
stanford institute for innovation in developing economies (seed). previously, he was a senior executive officer at the united states mint in washington
dc. 27 boardofdirectors
the directors who served throughout the year to 31 march 2017 and to the date of this report were as follows:
name age position
raj chellaraj 61 non-executive chairman
s. brian mukherjee 50 executive director
suranga chandratillake 39 non-executive director
mark opzoomer 60 non-executive director
ujjal kohli 58 non-executive director
andy cunningham 60 non-executive director
ted hastings 43 executive director
on 10 february 2017, ted hastings joined the board of directors as an executive director. raj holds an m.p.a. 28 suranga chandratillake
suranga is a general partner at balderton capital. suranga also
serves on the boards of banjo, contentful, dalia research, tab media and vivino. none of these statements should 
be construed as a recommendation to invest in the 
company. safe harbor disclosure contents
strategic report
key highlights  2 
business overview  4 
chairman’s statement  9 
ceo’s report  10 
cfo‘s report  12 
corporate strategy  16 
commercial model  23
governance 
corporate governance report  25
board of directors  28
remuneration committee report  31 
audit committee report  34 
nomination committee report  36 
directors’ report  37
financials 
independent auditors’ report  41 
consolidated income statement  43 
consolidated balance sheet   45 
consolidated cash flow statement  47 
notes to financial statements  48 
shareholder information and advisors 80 
glossary  81 key highlights
2
fy2017 was a pivotal year for rhythmone. chairman’s statement
raj chellaraj 
chairman of the board  
of directors 10
ceo’s report
subhransu (“brian”) 
mukherjee 
chief executive officer 11
the company’s  
core product  
investments and  
initiatives have  
provided the  
structure for  
continued  
organic and  
inorganic growth 
as the company  
forward-integrates 
through the value 
chain, streamlining 
the value exchange 
between consumers 
and advertisers. roleandcomposition oftheboard
the board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the company. with a return to underlying 

 
 financial
 operations and governance
 side


 products

  1. core revenue is revenue recognized within continuing operations in the 
 2. non-core revenue is revenue recognized within discontinued operations
 discontinued operations. ebitda
$1.4m
($10.5m)
net cash &  
marketable  
securities
$75.2m
$78.5m 4
rhythmone
 market outlook
 dominance of programmatic trading
         business overview
advertising 
ecosystem
devices
content
rhythmone
audiences brands 5
               2020
 
   2020
     2020
source: emarketer comparative estimates, 2017

 6
strategy
 operating model
 operating 
model
devices
content
rhythmone
audiences publishers agents brands 7
 outlook
 revenue 
equation
deﬁnitions: 
volume: t otal number of ad requests processed through the platform and available to monetize 
fill: proportion of ad requests actually monetized, based on ﬁltering, targeting and availability of demand  
price: weighted average price of inventory across all ad formats ﬂowing through the platform
=
volume
fill  
rate
price revenue 8
rhythmone has grown into a significant digital advertising 
entity with massive scale, cutting-edge technology and quality, 
differentiated supply. 13
fy2017 was a pivotal year for rhythmone, as the  
company achieved its stated goal for the period  
with a return to full-year growth and underlying 
profitability on an adjusted ebitda basis. 14
principal risks and uncertainties
 these innovations. millions fy2017 1
  $149.0   2
  $26.4  3
  $175.4 4
  $1.4  5
  $75.2   2 3
fy2017 was a pivotal year for rhythmone...  
the company reinforced its position as a leading 
multi-channel, multi-format programmatic  
platform with significant scale, cutting-edge 
technology and unique, high-quality inventory. time period: fy2017 (top) , fy2016 (bottom)
total 
revenue
3
$175.4m
$166.7m
adj. richard o’connor 
chief financial officer
12
kpi 2017 vs. 2016
2017 2016 2017 2016
 1
     2
          
           1.0
      cfo’s report
 2017 2016
 10.2 2.0 4
  1

 earnings and tax
 trading platform. 16
corporate strategy
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
source: emarketer, march 2017
us total ad spend, by media 2016–2021 ($b)
digital          tv           traditional (ex. as chairman, mr. chellaraj is responsible for leadership of the board, setting the
board’s agenda, and ensuring that there is sufficient time available for discussion of all agenda items. it also meets outside of the formal schedule of meetings as and when required. if the chairman is absent, another non-executive director is appointed chairman for that meeting. at certain times, where there may
be a perceived conflict due to the subject matter of a meeting, a director is recused from that meeting. in business and government policy from harvard university, an m.b.a. in
finance from new york university, an m.s. in chemical engineering from clarkson university and a b.s. in chemical engineering from
madras university, india. (honors)
degrees in engineering, and an m.b.a. (honors) from the university of chicago, booth school of
business. “rhythmone” and other 
trademarks of ours appearing in this report are 
our property. the board convenes at regular scheduled intervals and follows a formal agenda of matters specifically reserved for discussion, including
such matters as:
  determining the group’s strategy;
  ensuring open and informative communication with shareholders;
  reviewing and managing risks;
  evaluating major capital expenditures;
  evaluating material contracts to be entered into;
  shaping key operational policies;
  reviewing and approving the group’s business plan and forecasts;
  measuring performance; and
  approving the annual and interim financial statements. informationandsupport
the board is supplied with information in a form that enables it to discharge its responsibilities effectively. trading updates and press releases are issued as appropriate and the company’s brokers provide information on shareholder opinion
and compile independent feedback from investor meetings.