our vertically integrated approach, as well as investment 
in our proprietary mobile platform and successful brand 
partnerships, gives us complete control to offer highly  
popular games to a very broad audience. as the creator of a variety of slingo™, bingo, slots and other casual games, we use our 
proprietary data platform to build and engage global audiences that are expanding even 
further via strategic lottery, media and platform partnerships. gaming realms has partnered 
with some of the most successful and popular global platforms and operators. innovation  
at our heart
integrated game development, licensing and publishing
ip licensor
 » north american lottery printed scratch 
games – scientific games
 » global electronic gaming machines – 
scientific games
 » global lottery mobile instant games – iwg
 » social slot games – zynga inc.
game development game licensing
game publishing
3 mobile games studios:
end to end publisher with 100% regulated 
gaming and social games revenues. the group’s strategy of disposing of non-core 
assets, and concentrating on delivering 
operating profit in its two main business 
units, has resulted in the group ending 2017 
in a much stronger position than the previous 
year. this has put pressure on margins 
throughout the last two years. on 17 may 
2018, the government announced that it 
proposes to reduce the permitted maximum 
allowed stake on fixed odds terminals in 
betting shops to £2 from the current £100. the group’s strategy of disposing of non-core assets, and 
concentrating on delivering operating profit in its two  
main business units, has resulted in the group ending  
2017 in a much stronger position than the previous year. annual report and accounts 2017 contents
strategic report
1  2017 highlights
2 at a glance  
4  chairman’s statement
6  chief executive’s review
8  financial review
10  principal risks and uncertainties
corporate governance
12  board of directors and executive management
14  directors’ report
15  statement of directors’ responsibilities
16  corporate governance 
financial statements
17  independent auditor’s report
20  consolidated statement of comprehensive income
21  consolidated statement of financial position
22  consolidated statement of cash flows
23  consolidated statement of changes in equity
24  notes to the consolidated financial statements
46  parent company statement of financial position
47  parent company statement of changes in equity
48  notes to the parent company financial statements
51  company information
gaming realms is a developer, publisher and licensor  
of mobile games, building an international portfolio  
of highly popular gaming content and brands. michael buckley
chairman
chairman’s statement
delivering growth
i
we had a significant year in social publishing, 
with a reorganisation of the business and a 
substantial reduction in costs of circa £3m on 
an annualised basis. as part of the arrangements between the 
two companies, the jackpotjoy group 
entered into a £3.5m secured convertible 
loan agreement with the company full  
details of which are given later in this  
report and accounts. on 14 may 2018, 
the us supreme court announced a decision 
to reverse a ban on sports betting within the 
usa. on behalf of the board
michael buckley  patrick southon
chairman  chief executive officer
4 june 2018  4 june 2018
high risk medium risk low risk page title board of directors and executive management
michael buckley
chairman
mb
michael buckley was chairman of cashcade, 
which he founded with patrick southon and 
simon collins in 2000. cashcade became a 
leading uk-based online gaming company 
prior to its sale to partygaming plc in 2009 
for an aggregate sale consideration of £96m 
for shareholders. these 
include selectv plc, a producer of comedy 
and comedy drama series for television such 
as lovejoy, birds of a feather and the new 
statesman. selectv invested in a consortium 
which in 1991 won the franchise to create 
meridian television of which michael was 
a founding director. gaming realms plc annual report and accounts 2017 12
atul bali
non-executive director
ab
atul bali currently serves as the non-exec 
chairman of meridian, a non-executive 
director for metric gaming and for rainbow 
rare earths plc. the uk real money gaming market has 
been challenging, with a great deal of new 
regulation to contend with as well as adverse 
changes in point of consumption tax. it 
would therefore be remiss of me not to 
emphasise the adverse effect that increased 
government regulation has had on our uk 
real money gaming business. due to the resulting loss of tax revenue, 
the government also announced that 
remote gaming duty will be raised at the 
next budget in november 2018 in order to 
balance the budget. this makes it likely that 
there will be a further rise in the rate of point 
of consumption tax. total loss after 
tax increased to £8.2m due to impairment of 
£3.1m in respect of the discontinued affiliate 
marketing segment. the 
reduction year-on-year is as a result of annual 
amortisation of intangible assets of £4.9m 
and impairment of the affiliate cgu of £3.1m
following the restructure of social publishing, 
the 2018 sale of the affiliates cgu, and the 
global high margin opportunities in game 
content licensing the directors believe the 
group is in a strong position and expects to be 
cash generative for 2018. 
as a result the directors consider that the 
group has adequate resources to continue its 
normal course of operations for the  
foreseeable future. 2
 ebitda and adjusted ebitda are non-gaap measures and exclude exceptional items, depreciation, and amortisation. exceptional items are those items the group 
considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that may distort an understanding of financial performance or impair comparability. our market-
leading mobile technology powers content distribution and monetization across real  
money and social publishing markets. responsible  
gambling
gaming realms is committed to providing 
an environment for customers to play 
responsibly and securely. since commencing 
operations we have had measures in place 
to encourage responsible play – to keep it 
fun – and have provided tools to help keep 
customers’ gaming and spending within  
their control. gaming realms has worked closely with 
other operators to help develop and shape 
a responsible approach to customers across 
the industry. disclosures to auditors
the directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors’ 
report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and 
each director has taken steps that ought to have been taken as a 
director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that 
information. bdo llp, have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a 
resolution to reappoint them will be proposed for the annual general 
meeting in accordance with section 489 of the companies act 2006.
financial instruments
details of the group’s financial risk management objectives and 
policies are included in note 22 to the financial statements. during the year the group claimed research and development relief 
as per note 11.
future developments
future developments are discussed in the chairman’s statement on 
page 4 and in the chief executive’s review on page 6.
patrick southon 
chief executive officer
4 june 2018 15 financial statements strategic report corporate governance
the directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. under that law the directors have elected 
to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with 
international financial reporting standards (‘ifrss’) as adopted by the 
european union and the company financial statements in accordance 
with united kingdom generally accepted accounting practice (united 
kingdom accounting standards and applicable law. 1 financial statements strategic report corporate governance
20 1 7 highlights
financial
operational
rmg revenue increased by 5% to 
£22.7m
(2016: £21.5m)
social publishing revenue  
decreased by 13% to
£6.9m
(2016: £7.9m) with 45%  
reduction in marketing as well as a 
reduction in headcount of 19
game library growth to
 19
proprietary games on our  
grizzly platform (2016: 8)
total game library growth to
683
games on our grizzly platform  
(2016: 458)
own game content and ip generated
38%
(2016: 37%) of real money gaming  
and social publishing revenue
licensing revenue increased
7%
to £0.8m (2016: £0.8m)
rmg marketing decreased by
17%
delivered a maiden full year  
adjusted ebitda of
£0.8m
(2016: £2m loss)
real money gaming (rmg)  
ebitda increased
 11 3%
to £2.7m (2016: 1.3m)
social publishing ebitda  
loss reduced
 97%
to £0.1m (2016: £1.8m loss)
strategic brand partnership deployments 
with itv and storm for loveislandgames 
as well as growing previous partnerships 
with fremantle and endemol
 » integration of real  
money gaming  
and social game  
development  
roadmap
 » launched new content 
licensing business in 
addition to brand 
licensing. in 2017 the 
remote game server was 
certified and deployed in 
new jersey and europe
 » secured a 10-year services 
agreement and £3.5m 
convertible loan with 
jackpotjoy group
 » settled $4.5m/£3.3m 
final tranche payment 
relating to the slingo 
acquisition
 » affiliate business 
transferred to held for 
sale and subsequently 
sold in march 2018
 » total revenue down  
by 7% to £31.6m  
(2016: £34.0m) for  
the year ended  
31 december 2017
 » revenue excluding disposed non-core assets down by 1% gaming realms plc annual report and accounts 2017 2
at a glance
gaming realms develops, publishes and licenses mobile gaming content. slingo, bingo  
and slots content
social studio
(victoria, canada)
focus: mobile (social) 
apps for re-use of rmg 
games
brands
(tv shows)
rgs
(soc/rm) page title
 am pleased to report that the 
group delivered a positive adjusted 
ebitda of £0.8m for 2017 (2016: 
£2m loss). following this strategy, we sold our  
non-core affiliate business for £2.4m in 
march 2018.
we were able to grow real money gaming 
revenue by 5% to £22.7m during the year 
(2016: £21.5m). » our mobile-first, real money gaming 
platform ‘grizzly’ is licensed in alderney and 
by the uk gambling commission. content licensor
 » social puzzle games – electronic arts inc.
 » bingo – pala interactive
 » igaming library – us and eu
• us – caesars interactive, resorts inc, pala 
interactive, rush street and golden nugget 
• europe – ladbrokescoral, 888, jackpotjoy 
and bet victor
brand partnerships
 » endemol – deal or no deal
 » freemantle – britain’s got talent,  
the x factor
 » northern & shell – health games
 » itv – love island, dancing on ice,  
the only way is essex, hell’s kitchen
 » sony – who wants to be a millionaire
london,  
uk
victoria, 
canada
brest,  
belarus 3 financial statements strategic report corporate governance
our key focus areas
original game content  
& ip development
we build original content from our own 
london, victoria and brest based studios 
incorporating social meta games and real 
money mechanics with well-known brands. strategic partners  
and licensing
partners include fremantle, zynga, iwg,  
pala interactive and scientific games. rmg studio 
(london)
focus: slingo and  
unique ip
simplified integrated 
development
global distribution 
through publishing  
& licensing
rmg social
uk: own sites
uk: media partnerships 
nj: igaming licensees 
lotteries: sgi & iwg  
europe: igaming licensees
slingo, slots, hidden 
objects: own apps 
social slots: zynga
additional publishing & 
licensing partnerships 
e.g.