in march 2017, the group also acquired a 
majority stake in aca marine as part of its strategic growth plans in the 
european superyacht finishing market. the company was renamed gyg 
plc in july 2017 when it became a public company through an initial public 
offering on the london stock exchange’s aim market. there are a number of factors that could cause actual future financial conditions, 
business performance, results or developments of the company to differ materially 
from the plans, goals and expectations expressed or implied by these forward-
looking statements and forecasts. this is an alternative performance measure and should not be considered an alternative to ifrs measures, such as revenue or operating profit. • succession planning is in place for 
senior positions. peter brown, 
the group’s chief operating officer, is the person with overall 
responsibility for health and safety matters. remy was appointed to the board on 3 march 2016.
gloria fernandez started her career with deloitte in audit 
and consulting, progressing to manager level in deloitte 
spain and deloitte uk, having spent two years working  
in scotland. gloria was appointed to the board on 3 march 2016.
stephen  
murphy  
independent 
non-executive 
chairman
gloria 
fernandez  
chief  
financial  
officer
remy  
millott  
chief  
executive  
officer
stephen has a strong financial and operational 
background having accumulated over 30 years’ 
experience in senior management positions and 
executive director roles. annual report and financial statements
for the year ended 31 december 2017
the w orld’s leading  
super y a cht ser vice  
& suppl y group gyg is a market leading superyacht painting, supply and maintenance 
company, offering services globally through operations in the 
mediterranean, northern europe and the united states. incorporated in the uk with its registered office in london, the company’s 
principal operational base is in palma de mallorca, spain. the company 
also has offices in barcelona, france, germany, holland, italy, monaco, the 
uk and the usa (namely fort lauderdale, west palm beach and savannah, 
georgia), giving the group very broad international service capability –  
no matter the size or location of the project. a brief history of gyg plc
•  pinmar was 
founded in 
palma de 
mallorca, spain
•  rolling stock 
was founded  
in palma de 
mallorca, spain
•  management 
buyout 
supported by 
ferretti and 
permira, italy
•  expansion to the 
uk and pendennis 
shipyard
•  rolling stock iso 
14001 & iso 9001 
certification
•  pinmar supply 
& wholesale 
division  
was created
•  pinmar became 
awlgrip’s distributor 
for spain
•  expansion to marina 
barcelona, spain
•  purchase of the techno craft, 
s.l. techno craft 
techno craft is a global pioneering 
company in yacht containment systems 
and hardware removal, providing 
specialised scaffolding construction  
and tenting solutions for superyachts 
undergoing painting or other refit works 
and also complete fittings removal, 
storage and reinstallation services. the 2017 edition of the superyacht forum in amsterdam 
saw the launch of the pinmar paint standard 2.0. prompted 
both by the entry of new paint manufacturers to the 
market and changes to the technical formulation and 
performance of superyacht paint products, the new 
standard takes into account the growing trend for darker 
pigments, metallic and pearlescent finishes. gyg’s operations can be divided into three key sales channels:
• refit (included in the coating segment): repainting and finishing of superyachts, 
normally as part of a refit programme. wha t we do
the pinmar standard
an objective solution  
to a subjective process
2.0
06 gyg plc refit
gyg has unrivalled experience in the 
superyacht refit market and has painted 
more yachts over 30m than any other 
company. by their 
nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they 
relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond the control of the 
company and depend upon circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. superyachts require a major survey service every five years to comply with certain 
class, maritime laws and insurance requirements. today it dominates the 50m+ 
market where the complexities and 
challenges are greatest and decision 
makers, be they; captains, owners’ 
representatives, management companies 
or shipyards, are seeking the most qualified 
and experienced partners who can deliver 
the highest quality, mitigate risk and also 
provide the best warranty and after-sale 
service on a global basis. the board believes that 
being a listed group provides reassurance to shipyards due  
to the scale and security of the group and provides confidence 
to them regarding the risk of awarding these large contracts. gyg is consistently at the forefront of new technology and continuously 
investing to improve efficiency, creativity and innovation – all backed up 
by strict quality control and the very best in after sales service. with its unrivalled 
reputation for quality and its expertise 
with high performance and specialist 
coatings, rolling stock is acknowledged 
as the leader in its field. designed to be universally-understood,  
it remains the most exacting and comprehensive 
guideline in existence and defines the high standard 
achievable on paint applications. the pinmar paint standard includes measuring methods 
and specific acceptance criteria applying to: colour 
shade, gloss, distinction of image, paint film thickness 
and dust, as well as fairing straightness and other 
relevant criteria for new builds. c o ntent s
02-09
overview
highlights 03
our brands  04
what we do  06
chairman’s statement 08
10-17
strategic report
chief executive’s report 10
financial review 14
key performance indicators 15
risk management and principal risks 16
corporate responsibility 17
18-34
directors’ governance report
board of directors and senior management 18
directors’ report 20
corporate governance statement 23
nomination committee report 26
audit committee report 27
directors’ remuneration report 30
statement of directors’ responsibilities 34
35-76
financial statements
independent auditor’s report to the members of gyg plc  35
consolidated statement of comprehensive income  41
consolidated balance sheet 42
consolidated statement of changes in equity 43
consolidated cash flow statement 44
notes to the consolidated financial statements 45
parent company balance sheet 68 
parent company statement of changes in equity 69
notes to the parent company financial statements 69
notice of annual general meeting 71
company information ibc
cautionary statement
sections of this annual report, including but not limited to the directors’ report, the 
strategic report and the directors’ remuneration report may contain forward-
looking statements with respect to certain of the plans and current goals and 
expectations relating to the future financial condition, business performance and 
results of the company. these have been made by the directors in good faith using 
information available up to the date on which they approved this report. annual report and financial statements 2017 07
overview i am delighted to present my first chairman’s statement as a public company 
on behalf of the board of gyg plc. together with the 
acquisition of the majority shareholding in aca marine, gyg’s flotation on 
aim represented a significant achievement for the board of our company 
and i am grateful for the dedicated support of my fellow directors. the company 
primarily trades under the pinmar, rolling stock, techno craft and aca 
marine brands. the global yachting group was originally created in 2012 through the 
merger of the two leading superyacht painting brands pinmar and rolling 
stock; such expansion of the group titled it as the only superyacht painting 
company with global operations. o u r b r a n d s
pinmar 
pinmar is recognised as the market 
leading brand in the premium motor 
yacht sector having completed the 
fairing and finishing on some of the 
world’s most prestigious superyachts 
for the past 40 years. pinmar usa 
headquartered in west palm beach with 
bases in fort lauderdale and savannah, 
georgia, pinmar usa offers a full service 
activity of finishing and refinishing to 
superyachts along the east coast and  
in the caribbean. nothing in this document should be construed  
as a profit forecast. annual report and financial statements 2017 01
overview 02 gyg plc annual report and financial statements 2017 03
overview
h ig h l ig h t s
1
 refer to the financial performance section for an explanation of the basis of preparation of the twelve-month period ended 31 december 2016 comparative financial 
information (referred to as “fy16”). 2
 adjusted ebitda is defined as operating profit before finance costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, share based payments and exceptional items. financial highlights 
• group revenue increased 14.7% to ¤62.6m (fy16
1
 ¤54.6m)
• coating (refit & new build) revenue up 16.7%  
to ¤53.7m (fy16 ¤46.0m)
• supply revenue up 4.2% to ¤8.9m (fy16 ¤8.6m)
• adjusted ebitda
2
 increased 7.6% to ¤7.2m (fy16 ¤6.7m)
• operating profit of ¤1.4m which includes ¤3.9m  
of exceptional items, mainly related to the ipo  
(fy16 operating profit of ¤1.9m)
• net debt position reduced to ¤6.7m at 31 december 2017 
(fy16: ¤10.4m)
• cash of ¤6.2m as at 31 december 2017  
(¤6.2m at 31 december 2016)
• board has recommended a total dividend of 3.2 pence  
per ordinary share, reflecting the 6 month period from ipo 
to the year end
operational highlights
• completed acquisition of aca marine coating division  
in south of france in march 2017
• successful placing of £6.9m of new equity and admission 
to aim in july 2017. upon admission, stephen murphy  
was appointed as chairman and richard king as  
non-executive director 
• enhanced credibility and profile as a result of the ipo 
demonstrated by recent contract wins including for the 
previously announced work on rev 182 
• record order book
3
 as at 31 december 2017 of ¤20.4m 
(up from ¤17.9m fy16), of which ¤14.3m is planned to be 
delivered in fy18
• pipeline
4
 of ¤376m as at 31 december 2017  
(up from ¤267m fy16)
• balance sheet strengthened, with repayment of ¤4.3m  
of loan notes on ipo
• post period end, the group won the first significant refit 
project at the newly refurbished savannah yacht center  
in georgia, usa on a c.70 metre dutch-built superyacht today gyg operates six market 
leading brands; pinmar, pinmar 
usa, rolling stock, aca marine, 
pinmar supply and techno craft, 
offering a comprehensive 
painting and supply  
service for the global  
superyacht sector. with over 70 years’ operating experience in the superyacht industry  
and a highly-skilled workforce, gyg is a leading provider to the world’s 
superyacht fleet – including many of the largest ever built. 3
 order book is defined as contracted but unbilled new build and refit projects across the group from 1 january 2018 onwards. 4
 pipeline is defined as the projects the group are looking to secure, covering the stages from sending a proposal to final negotiation. pinmar is a major 
player in both the new build and refit 
sectors competing on a global basis.