the executive team maintains the risk register and 
escalates the key risks for further consideration at full board level on a regular basis. we seek to minimise 
days lost to sickness via healthcare benefits and general 
morale and wellbeing initiatives. staff retention
staff departures could create staff and key  
skill/experience shortages and compromise 
the execution of the group’s business plan. we review our security provisions regularly and believe 
them to be in accordance with industry best practices. our long-term ambition is to become a 
global leader in entertainment and we are 
scaling up to continue our multi-franchise 
success story. we have established a 
scale-up plan to achieve our next step which 
includes investments in people, organisation, 
geographical distribution and facilities. we continue to develop our organisation 
to fulfi l our goals. strategy 
we believe that publishing our own franchises 
is the best way to maximise the benefi t of 
our core skills and our assets and our cobra 
technology platform. in july 2017 planet coaster’s 
first paid additional downloadable content was launched. in june 2017 the franchise’s 
addressable audience was further expanded with 
release on the sony playstation 4 platform. • £17.7 million was raised in july 2017 through a strategic 
investment from tencent, a leading internet and 
interactive entertainment company based in china. the games 
market is now the premier form of 
entertainment worth over $100bn per year, 
in the wider $300bn entertainment industry. david founded frontier in 
1994 in order to build a team to continue creating 
high quality, innovative games in the rapidly 
evolving games industry with an ambition that 
only teams of skilled professionals can deliver. having worked with a succession of top publishers we 
now self-publish our own high quality, innovative games 
of different genres that embody our world-class expertise 
across all major gaming formats. building on our 
self-publishing success 
after successfully proving our ability 
to launch franchises, we are scaling up 
to deliver roughly one major launch 
per year and achieve our long-term 
ambition of becoming a global leader 
in entertainment. this will improve and accelerate frontier’s growth 
into the key chinese market and help drive scale-up 
of the business. as noted in last year’s 
report, jonathan milner stepped down 
from the board as a non-executive director 
in july 2016 and charles cotton joined in 
his place. in april 2017 we 
further strengthened the board with the 
appointment of alex bevis as cfo and 
company secretary. alex brings extensive 
board experience as vp finance and cfo 
of high technology growth companies from 
his work at csr plc and xaar plc. david gammon
non-executive chairman
7 september 2017
david gammon
non-executive 
chairman
strategic report
frontier developments plc
annual report and accounts 2017 03 creating franchises
in 2013 we set out our plan to transition 
the business from work-for-hire to 
multi-franchise self-publication. frontier developments plc annual report and accounts 2017
record results: 
profits increase 550% as 
business transition completes
frontier developments plc
annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report
01 highlights
02 frontier at a glance
03 chairman’s statement
04 chief executive’s statement
06 our strategy and business model
08 our franchises
 08 elite dangerous
 10 planet coaster
 12 jurassic world evolution
14 financial review
16 principal risks and uncertainties
corporate governance
18 board of directors
20 report of the directors
22 corporate governance report
25 remuneration report
financial statements
27 independent auditor’s report
28 consolidated income statement
28 consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
29 consolidated statement 
of fi nancial position
30 consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
31 consolidated statement of cashfl ows
32 notes to the fi nancial statements
51 company statement 
of fi nancial position
52 company statement of cashfl ows
53 company statement 
of changes in equity
additional information
54 notice of annual general meeting
ibc five year summary
ibc advisors and company information
frontier’s founder david braben began his work 
in games back in 1982 when he co-authored the 
seminal game elite. ongoing investment in our people, organisation and facilities, supported by the 
proceeds from the £17.7 million strategic investment by tencent completed in 
july 2017, will enable the business to continue scaling up. www.elitedangerous.com
read more from page
 
08
read more from page
 
10
read more from page
 
12
frontier developments plc
annual report and accounts 2017 02 scaling up
chairman’s statement
 “i am delighted with our 
results and excited about 
our future.”
i am pleased to report on a very satisfying 
year in frontier’s continued development. to 
support these plans we took a strategic 
investment from tencent in july 2017, 
raising £17.7 million. stars chris pratt and bryce dallas howard return alongside executive 
producers steven spielberg and colin trevorrow for universal pictures 
and amblin entertainment’s jurassic world: fallen kingdom. pratt and howard are joined by co-stars james cromwell, ted levine, 
justice smith, geraldine chaplin, daniella pineda, toby jones, rafe spall, 
while jake johnson, bd wong and jeff goldblum reprise their roles. directed by j.a. bayona (the impossible), the epic action-adventure 
is written by jurassic world’s director, trevorrow, and its co-writer, 
derek connolly. frontier has thrived over the subsequent three decades. we have built a uniquely diverse catalogue of games 
– enabled by our cobra technology – that has defi ned 
genres, earned critical acclaim and won a place in the 
hearts of millions of players. highlights
transition completed
operational and strategic highlights
• the company’s transition to a fully self-publishing 
business model was completed in november 2016 
with the successful launch of frontier’s second 
franchise, planet coaster. • elite dangerous, which launched in december 2014, 
continues to perform well. financial highlights
• total revenue grew 75% to £37.4 million 
(fy16: £21.4 million) as the launch of the planet coaster 
franchise in november 2016 drove a step-up in 
annual sales. • self-publishing revenue of £36.4 million 
(fy16: £21.1 million) accounted for 97% of total 
revenue with the balance being related to our legacy 
work-for-hire business. • operating profit grew by 550% to £7.8 million 
(fy16: £1.2 million) representing an operating 
margin of 21% (fy16: 6%) and ebitda increased 
to £12.7 million (fy16: £4.9 million). • operating cash flow (operating profit excluding 
non-cash items, less investments in franchises and 
other intangible assets) was an inflow of £3.4 million 
(fy16: outflow of £2.7 million). frontier at a glance
planet coaster
available for windows pc – planet coaster builds on frontier’s genre-defining expertise 
with coaster park games such as rollercoaster tycoon 3 and thrillville. www.planetcoaster.com
jurassic world evolution
launching in summer 2018 for windows pc, microsoft xbox one and sony playstation 4 
jurassic world evolution – evolves players’ relationship with the jurassic world film 
franchise, placing them in control of operations on the legendary islands of isla nublar 
and the surrounding islands of the muertes archipelago. www.jurassicworldevolutiongame.com
elite dangerous
available for windows pc, apple macintosh, microsoft xbox one and sony playstation 4 
elite dangerous – is the definitive massively multiplayer space epic, bringing gaming’s 
original open world adventure to the modern generation with a connected galaxy, evolving 
narrative and the entirety of the milky way re-created at its full galactic proportions. our commercial partners now include 
valve inc (with its steam platform), humble 
store and the distribution channel teams 
at both microsoft and sony; we are also 
excited to be partnering with universal on 
the jurassic world evolution project.