all of our brands are developed or tailored to be run in operationally 
demanding, high‑ volume travel locations, in order to meet the specific 
needs of our clients and customers in the travel sector. our approach to new business is disciplined and focuses on 
ensuring that we generate good returns on investment. our success is underpinned by our 
ability to deliver an attractive brand line-up and innovative bespoke concepts for our clients 
and customers. this reflects our 
confidence in the future of the business and our desire to maintain an efficient balance sheet. contents
strategic report
1 highlights
2 chairman’s statement 
3 chief executive’s statement 
4 our business
6 our business model 
8 our strategy 
9 financial review
14 key performance indicators
16 risk management and principal risks
23 sustainability report
corporate governance
26 board of directors
28 corporate governance report 
33 audit committee report 
37  statement by the chairman of the  
remuneration committee 
38 annual report on remuneration
45 directors’ remuneration policy 
52 directors’ report 
57 statement of directors’ responsibilities
financial statements 
58 independent auditor’s report 
62 consolidated income statement 
63  consolidated statement of other  
comprehensive income
64 consolidated balance sheet 
65 consolidated statement of changes in equity
66 consolidated cash flow statement
67 notes to consolidated financial statements
100 company balance sheet
101 notes to the company financial statements
112 company information strategic report ssp group annual report and accounts 2017
1
our scale
c. 35,000
employees
c. 600 sites
over
2,500 units
over
30 countries
more than
450 brands
c. 1,000,000
customers daily
1 
constant currency is based on weighted average exchange rates during the previous financial year. 2 
 stated on an underlying basis which excludes the revaluation of the obligation to acquire an additional 16% ownership share of tfs by the end of calendar year 2018 and the 
amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of the ssp business in 2006. in the prior year the underlying basis only excluded the amortisation of intangible 
assets arising on the acquisition of the ssp business in 2006. 
other notes 
like-for-like sales represent revenues generated in an equivalent period in each financial year in outlets which have been open for a minimum of 12 months and are presented 
on a constant currency basis. net contract gains/(losses) represent the net year-on-year revenue impact from new outlets opened and existing units closed in the past 12 months and are presented on a 
constant currency basis. free cash flow represents the net cash flows from operating activities less capital expenditure, net cash flows to and from associates/non-controlling interests, acquisition 
and financing costs. +.
,.m
+. 
,.m
flat
,. 
,	.m
+.
,. +	.
 +
. ssp group plc
annual report and accounts 2017 ssp at a glance
ssp is a leading operator of food and beverage outlets in travel  
locations in over 30 countries in the united kingdom, europe,  
north america, asia pacific and the middle east. as ‘the food travel 
experts’ we operate over 2,500 outlets from quick service to fine  
dining, and serve, on average, one million customers each day. we have continued to deliver good like-for -like sales growth in our existing business, as 
well as a significant increase in net contract gains, which are strengthening our presence 
across the world. we announced a number of important contract wins in the year, further extending our 
presence in north america and in the rest of the world, where there are significant 
structural growth opportunities. 
           (year-on-year at constant currency

) strategic report ssp group annual report and accounts 2017
2
another year of delivery in 2017
i am pleased to report that the group has delivered another strong set of annual results, with 
revenue growing by 19.5% to £2,379m and underlying earnings per share increasing by 31% 
to 20.3 pence per share. the consolidation of tfs added a 
further 30 bps, bringing the group margin to 6.8%. t otal revenue increased by 11.7% on a constant currency basis, including like-for -like 
sales growth of 3.1%, net contract gains of 6.0% and a negative impact of 0.3% from the 
additional leap year day in 2016. the tfs business contributed a further 2.9% to revenue. net contract gains were 6.0% in the year , an encouraging increase from last year’s gains 
of 1.7%. we have a deep understanding of the diverse needs of travellers and 
operate a broad portfolio of more than 450 brands and concepts, 
including coffee shops, sandwich bars, bakeries, casual and fine‑dining 
restaurants, as well as convenience and retail outlets. these include 
international and local high street brands, through to our own 
proprietary brands and bespoke restaurant concepts. m
+. 	
. allied to this, our strategic initiatives have delivered further operational 
improvements and margin growth. increasing passenger numbers around the world, both in the airport 
and rail sectors, provide significant structural growth opportunities. like-for -like growth in the air sector has again been stronger than the rail sector, driven by 
increasing passenger numbers in most of our markets. this identified a core market of £13.8bn in 2013, 
which includes airports and railway stations globally but excludes rail in north 
america. +.
 +
. m
+. +	. m
+. please refer to page 15 for supporting reconciliations from ssp group plc’s statutory reported results to these performance measures. highlights
    
revenue
,.m
constant currency

 increase
+.
 +. actual currency
+. 
           (year-on-year at constant currency

)
    
underlying operating proﬁt

operating proﬁt
.m .m
constant currency

 increase
+.
 +. 2 
aci world traffic forecast (2016). 3 
aci world 2016 and iata (2016). 4 
orr; eurostat (2017). 5 
oecd (2017).