in addition to these main markets, 
we continue to explore new geographical markets which we 
believe may offer attractive opportunities. outlook
global financial markets continue to 
experience a mix of predicted and 
unexpected developments. the environment of political uncertainty 
and change, and the resultant significant 
moves in currency markets, have focused 
investors’ attention on the opportunities 
presented by currency management. we have seen inflows throughout the year 
in hedging strategies and in currency for 
return, and we continue to see interest in 
a diversified range of opportunities amongst 
investors around the world. record plc 
annual report 2017
record plc annual report 2017 record is an independent currency manager with over 
30 years’ experience in delivering currency solutions. record plc is listed on the main market of the london stock 
exchange, and is majority‑owned by its directors and employees. visit us online
www.recordcm.com
twitter.com/recordcurrency
linkedin.com/company/record-currency-management
about us
experience
specialists in currency  
with over 30 years’  
experience operating  
in currency markets
integrity
a culture of integrity 
and accountability is 
embedded throughout our 
governance structure
client 
relationships
we aim to build long‑term 
“trusted adviser” relationships 
with clients to understand fully 
their currency issues and 
to provide robust and 
high‑quality solutions strategic report governance financial statements additional information
record plc annual report 2017
1
contents
our highlights 2
where we operate 3
chairman’s statement 4
chief executive  
officer’s statement  6
strategy and objectives 10 
key performance indicators 12
business model 14
business review
 market review 18
 operating review 20
 financial review 24
risk management 28
corporate social  
responsibility 34
strategic report
governance
financial  
statements
additional 
information
chairman’s introduction 37
board of directors 38
corporate governance report 40
nomination committee report 44
audit and risk  
committee report 46
remuneration report 50
directors’ report 65
directors’ responsibilities 
statement 67
independent auditor’s report 68
financial statements 70
notes to the financial  
statements 77
product classification 103
five year summary 104
information for  
shareholders 104
definitions ibc record plc annual report 2017
strategic report
2
our highlights
assets under management equivalents
$58.2bn
2016: $52.9bn
+10%
revenue
£23.9m
2016: £21.1m
+13%
earnings per share
2.91p
2016: 2.55p
+14%
 
clients
59
2016: 58
+2%
profit before tax
£8.7m
2016: £6.9m
+26%
ordinary dividend per share
2.00p
2016: 1.65p
+21%
special dividend per share
0.91p
2016: nil record plc annual report 2017
3
sales office
new york
sales  
representative 
germany
sales  
representative 
switzerland
head office 
windsor
strategic report governance financial statements additional information
the group’s main geographical markets are the uk, north america 
and continental europe, in particular switzerland. regions
our clients are located in:
• united kingdom
• canada
• cayman islands
• united states
• belgium
• channel islands
• germany
• luxembourg
• netherlands
• portugal
• switzerland
• sweden
• singapore
aume
$0.4bn
aume
$39.3bn
aume
$5.9bn
aume
$12.6bn
rest of world
continental europe
north america
united kingdom record plc annual report 2017
strategic report
4
overview
the twelve months ending 31 march 2017 
have proved to be turbulent, with major 
political surprises, along with significant 
economic and regulatory changes affecting 
the financial services industry in general 
and foreign exchange markets in particular. during the year 
we have seen the emergence of clearer 
themes amongst investors as to their 
preferences in managing currency risk 
and opportunity. we have 
also continued to enhance our passive 
hedging offering, emphasising to clients 
its bespoke nature, and the opportunity 
to take advantage of market opportunities 
even within a fixed hedge ratio constraint. the strong performance of 
multi-strategy continues to attract investor 
interest. our goals are to develop robust and 
innovative currency solutions that meet 
client demand and, in doing so, to create 
shareholder value for our investors over 
the long term. the group also has 
a us office in new york, and a sales representative based in 
germany. since the end of the financial year, record has opened 
an office in zürich, switzerland. exchange rates have reacted to political 
surprises, in some cases markedly. elections in the us later in the year also 
caused surprise amongst investors, with 
president trump’s economic ambitions 
being viewed optimistically by markets and 
proving to be supportive of the us dollar, 
which ended the year having strengthened 
against most major currencies. whilst much of the growth in 
sterling terms can be attributed to sterling’s 
depreciation, it is also pleasing to note 
aume growth in us dollar terms, taking 
aume to its highest level in record’s history. partly as a result, 
markets around the world have been 
slow to return to conventional interest 
rate policies, although the modest moves 
to higher us dollar rates have brought 
about some divergence. investment performance
uk-based dynamic hedging programmes 
allowed uk investors to capture gains in 
their underlying overseas exposures as 
sterling depreciated, by keeping hedge 
ratios low throughout the period. us-based dynamic hedging clients saw 
losses from currency on international assets 
when valuing positions in us dollars, as the 
us dollar strengthened. over this period, the yardstick for our 
balance sheet has been broadly to 
hold excess capital equivalent to two 
years’ worth of overheads excluding 
variable remuneration. as discussed further in the business 
review, record has reported its 
highest-ever aume, increased revenues 
and earnings, and further growth in revenue 
diversification, with revenues from passive 
hedging now covering all overheads 
excluding variable remuneration. at the market structure level, differences 
have emerged between money market 
interest rates and those implied in foreign 
exchange forward contracts which have not 
generally been observed historically, as set 
out further on page 19. this creates relative 
winners and losers, as well as opportunities 
for record’s clients. regulation is one of 
the unintended drivers of this phenomenon. everything we do is for our clients – we have no 
proprietary business. our clients are largely institutions, including pension funds, 
charities, foundations, endowments, and family offices, 
as well as other fund managers and corporate clients. where we operate
the group’s main geographical markets are the uk, north america 
and continental europe, in particular switzerland, as determined by 
the location of clients to whom services are provided. the group’s head office is in windsor, uk from where all of its 
operations are performed and controlled. the uk’s vote to leave the european union 
in june caused a major adjustment in foreign 
exchange markets with an immediate and 
dramatic decrease in the value of sterling of 
11% against the us dollar, and weakness 
against all other major currencies in the year 
ending 31 march 2017. sterling finished the 
year down 13% against the us dollar, 9% 
down against the swiss franc and just over 
7% down versus the euro. with net assets of 
£41.6 million, own cash
1
 of £29.2 million; 
a surplus over regulatory capital (adjusted 
the board is recommending a 21% increase in 
ordinary dividend to 2.00 pence per share and 
a special dividend of 0.91 pence per share. our dividend policy targets a level of 
dividend which is at least covered by 
earnings and which allows for sustainable 
dividend growth in line with the trend 
in profitability. in line with such policy 
and improved profitability, the board is 
recommending a 21% increase in the 
ordinary full year dividend to 2.00 pence 
per share. both 
dynamic hedging and multi-strategy have 
also benefited from enhancements to their 
investment process, and combinations of 
these products are increasingly tailored to 
specific clients’ needs. these measures are calculated by removing the impact of 
non-controlling interests from the normal gaap measures presented in the financial statements calculated in accordance with ifrs. we have 
prioritised the expansion of our capabilities 
in cash and collateral management. we are proposing 
changes to our remuneration structures 
including to conform conditions between 
approved and unapproved options and 
thereby enhance the alignment of interests 
with external shareholders. we are based in windsor, in the uk, and have been since our formation in 1983. 
record has always been an independent currency specialist, and has always focused 
on developing a deep understanding of the risk and reward opportunities in currency 
markets, so as to offer our clients the most appropriate solution to their needs. our clients benefit from our experience, and from the continuity and consistency with 
which we apply that experience. we also attach importance to continuity of leadership 
and management. this new 
policy will still ensure a significant capital 
buffer over regulatory requirements.