the board is currently 
made up of four directors, myself, 
ian metcalfe, who chairs the 
remuneration committee, and two 
executive directors. annual report & accounts 2017 32
governance
board of directors 34
regional leadership team 35
corporate governance statement 36
audit committee report 38
remuneration committee report  40
directors report 42
director’s responsibilities statement 45
arena ice supplies more 
than 30 rinks complete with  
leisure facilities and skate  
hire areas across the uk  
for the winter months
arena group annual report & accounts 2017
bryant park ice rink – december 2017
33
overview strategic report governance financial statements arena group
annual report & accounts 2017 34
board of directors
greg lawless
group ceo
piers wilson
group finance 
director
ken hanna
chairman
ian metcalfe
non executive
director
ian was appointed non-executive director of the board in july 
2017. 
ian brings significant experience with sporting organisations to 
the board. he is currently chairman of commonwealth games 
england, having held the position since december 2014. ian 
is a member of the rugby football union (‘‘rfu’’) council, 
having represented cambridge university rufc for eleven 
years, and has recently stepped down from the professional 
game board of the rfu, after nine years in the role. he also 
held a non-executive director of england rugby 2015 limited, 
the organising body of the 2015 rugby world cup. the board will 
keep this composition under review. these results are described in more detail in the 
financial review on page 19 including a reconciliation 
of adjusted numbers to statutory figures. however, at this date, we are not in a 
position to finalise this matter with the usao. performance indicators 
the group monitors a number of key performance 
indicators (“kpis”) which are reviewed at divisional and 
board level. industry overview
the global event rental sector is a highly fragmented 
and siloed (single product/service focused) industry. product extension
• we intend to replicate our uk multi-product offering 
in other parts of the group. the 
deal was announced on the 2nd february 2018. this 
business has now been successfully integrated into our 
spaceworks furniture hire unit in membury and we 
believe will be a valuable addition to our uk & europe 
division. there is a global h&s committee that reviews 
h&s practices and ensures best practice is shared 
between each region. we operate and manage the business on a regional 
basis and each of our three regional divisions have 
their own management teams and mix of physical 
inventory. on certain 
projects we supplement our own assets with additional 
equipment, for example fencing or portacabins or 
temporary toilets to provide a full turnkey solution to 
the customer. project management 
our specialism is taking 
your initial concepts and 
transforming them into 
extraordinary live event 
environments. from our 
in-house team of cad 
designers to the collective 
expertise of our senior staff, 
we have the capability to 
deliver on even the most 
challenging of briefs. the initial public offering 
(“ipo”) which raised £56 million, net of expenses, not 
only significantly reduced the group’s net debt and 
strengthened our balance sheet but has also given us 
the shareholder base to support the value accretive 
acquisitions that are an integral part of the group’s 
ambitious strategic plan. the statutory loss before tax was 
£2.9m (2016: £3.6m), which includes £4.9m of costs 
considered to be exceptional or non-recurring, as well 
as the finance costs related to the high debt and loan 
note structure in place prior to the ipo. given these 
one-off and exceptional costs, and to give a better 
understanding of the underlying performance of the 
business, we present adjusted ebitda and adjusted 
net income. the group is now ebitda profitable 
nine months out of twelve and our objective is to 
ultimately have positive ebitda every month of the 
year as a consequence of this strategic component. global events. 2016
august
acquisition of 51% of 
ironmonger marquees in 
hong kong. the board is pleased to recommend 
payment of a final dividend for the 
year ending 31 december 2017 
of 0.9 pence. results 
the group delivered adjusted ebitda of £10.6m 
(2016: £8.5m) and an adjusted net income of £4.0m 
(2016: £1.2m). the statutory operating profit was 
£0.3m (2016:£1.2m). our core assets are temporary structures, 
ranging from simple marquees to triple deck 
temporary buildings; temporary seats both indoor and 
outdoor; furniture; scaffolding and ice rinks. annual report & accounts 2017 7
overview strategic report governance financial statements
scaffolding 
our scaffolding event 
professionals specialise in 
the provision and installation 
of event scaffolding, 
constructing sub-structures 
for temporary buildings 
and seating grandstands 
and broadcast structure 
supports. tableware
we offer the finest crockery, 
cutlery, glassware, furniture 
and linen available for 
event hire. our tableware 
brand ‘well dressed tables’ 
supplies some of the most 
prestigious events across the 
uk and the us with premium 
and elegant tableware 
furniture 
we have a wide range of 
furniture items available 
for hire, helping to 
transform a temporary 
event environment into a 
permanent-feel venue
interiors 
we design and install 
complete interiors according 
to our client’s specific 
needs, we have delivered 
luxurious hospitality at the 
wimbledon championships 
and exhibition venues at the 
farnborough international 
air show. arena events group plc
annual report & accounts 2017
arena events group plc – annual report & accounts 2017 annual report & accounts 2017 2
overview  
our business 6
our offering  7
key milestones 8
our vision, mission and values 10
the arena standard 11
strategic report 
chairman’s statement 14
ceo’s report 16
financial review 19
principal risks, controls and mitigation 22
regional highlights 24
corporate social responsibility 30
governance 
board of directors 34
regional leadership team 35
corporate governance statement 36
audit committee report 38
remuneration committee report 40
directors’ report 42
directors’ responsibilities statement 45
finance 
independent auditor’s report 48
financial statements & notes 63
table of contents
us pga – august 2017 annual report & accounts 2017 3
overview strategic report governance financial statements
£109.6m
revenue
2016: £93.2m
growth 18%
americas uk & 
europe
middle east 
& asia 
group snapshot
operating across  
3 regional divisions:
some of 
our clients
arena group is an international events solutions company, designing 
and delivering complete environments for the most prestigious sporting, 
commercial and cultural occasions around the world. 42%
uk & europe
40%
americas
18%
middle east &
asia
revenue by region overview
our business 6
our offering 7
key milestones 8
our vision, mission and values 10
the arena standard 11
when the first ever cj cup golf tournament 
came to the club at nine bridges on south 
korea’s jeju island, arena middle east & asia 
was on hand to supply temporary hospitality 
structures. annual report & accounts 2017 4 5 annual report & accounts 2017
cj cup korea – october 2017 arena group
annual report & accounts 2017 6
our business
the group is a global provider of event rental 
solutions with operations based in 14 depots in 
7 countries across the uk & europe, me&a, and us 
regions. we are 
focused on delivering a sense of belonging to arena 
group, whether you are working in kuala lumpur or 
milwaukee. designed and delivered. markets
sports 
corporate
ice rinks 
ceremonial 
products & services
temporary structures
scaffolding
furniture
ice 
mass participation 
music 
exhibition
conference
seating
interiors
tableware
project management
promising our customers over 250 years of industry experience & 
expertise, efficiency and flexibility, on time delivery, premium quality, 
innovative & elegant design, value for money and safe solutions every 
time. we provide a full turnkey solution for our customers, 
starting with design and project management, moving 
to delivery and installation. we own the large majority of the physical assets which 
we deliver, construct and hand over to clients for their 
events.