6. affordability 
ka-band hts services are far cheaper than 
traditional and hts ku-band systems. the finite life of the satellite combined with falling capacity prices  
resulted in  an accounting impairment of $53.3m. hylas 1 remains 
an integral part of the avanti fleet, is forecast to generate good 
ebitda and cash flows, and continues to serve some important 
customers in western europe. in addition we have impaired hylas 2 by $60.8m, once again 
reflecting falling capacity prices and the finite life of the satellite. of the high 
probability pipeline that existed at 30 june 2016, 30% was signed 
by 31 december 2016 compared to historic conversion rates of 
over 60%. the amended fleet utilisation is 
in the 30-35% band (june 2016 re-based: 25-30% band). revenues from this customer group 
were 15% lower in the 2017 financial year ($24.6m) versus 2016 
($28.4m). it is 
calculated by expressing utilised capacity as a percentage of total 
available capacity for the fleet of hylas 1 (3 ghz), hylas 2 (11 
ghz), hylas 2b (3ghz) and artemis (1 ghz).. the addition of 
hylas-2b in the current year increases available capacity from 
15ghz to 18 ghz and as a result the utilisation metric has been re-
based. alan harper, who at the time was a non-
executive director of the company, agreed to take up the role of 
interim chief executive. he has worked at 
vodafone as group strategy director and more recently founded 
and ran eaton towers, which served most of the major telco that are 
a key part of the strategy for expansion at avanti. alan harper  
chief executive  strategic report 
market overview 
 
6 
avanti communications group plc  
annual report and accounts 2017 
 
satellites provide data communications and 
broadcasting services around the world. we were also pleased at that point to welcome onto the 
board craig chobor, michael leitner and peter reed as 
representatives of key stakeholders. 2. flexibility 
avanti has a unique cloud-based customer 
interface that provides a single point of co-
ordination and control, allowing partners to 
become virtual network operators without the 
need to deploy their own capital or expertise. 3. innovation 
we’ve developed proprietary and patented 
technology which is deployed throughout  
our network. 5. high speed 
our network can provide download speeds  
of up to 380mbps, no matter how challenging 
the location. this project will research, develop and validate key 
technologies required to enable the plug-and-play integration of 
satellite communications into 5g networks.  cash at the year end of $32.7m (2016: $56.4m) 
 net debt
1
 at the year end of $562.0m (2016: $588.9m) 
 david williams, ceo, steps down shortly after the year end. 1 net debt comprises current and non-current loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. our products are sold as mb or managed accounts or as 
fully integrated projects but we calculate the price, or yield, per 
mhz per month. our average price per mhz in the last 12 months across the fleet 
was $1,400. we have 
market-beating service level agreements and 
no in-country coverage gaps. each research area will deliver outputs and benefits in 
relation to 5g ecosystem stakeholders. avanti delivers the level of quality and flexibility that the 
most demanding telecoms customers seek. we have chosen to 
remove these from backlog whilst at the same time working with 
those partners to find more appropriate terms on which to continue 
to work. contents 
 
 
strategic report 
01 key strengths 
02  highlights  
03  chairman’s statement 
04 chief executive’s review 
06 market overview 
06 key performance indicators  
07 our business model and strategy 
08 financial review 
12 sustainability 
governance 
14 board of directors  
16 chairman’s introduction to governance 
17 corporate governance report 
21 audit committee report 
23 nominations committee report  
24 remuneration committee report 
27 report of the board of directors 
30 statement of directors’ responsibilities 
financial statements 
31 independent auditor’s report 
35 consolidated income statement 
36  consolidated statement of financial position  
37 company statement of financial position 
38  consolidated and company statement of cash flows  
39 consolidated and company statement of changes in equity 
40 notes to the accounts 
  strategic report 
key strengths 
 
 
 
avanti communications group plc  
annual report and accounts 2017 
1
 
1. quality 
our network mirrors the quality of service  
that terrestrial communications offer. strategic report 
chairman’s statement 
 
 
avanti communications group plc  
annual report and accounts 2017 
3
 
in the first half of the financial year, avanti’s financial 
position suffered disruption when the additional debt 
facilities sought were not forthcoming on suitable 
terms. the disruption of the first six months of the year led to a lengthening 
of the sales cycle as our customers and potential customers waited 
for the refinancing and strategic review to be completed. following 
the completion of the transaction, some confidence did return to the 
customer base, but the lag in the sales cycle has taken some time 
to reverse, meaning that our revenues for the year were significantly 
lower than initially expected. after a period of very hard work, our existing 
bondholders and long term investors supported the 
company through a refinancing transaction that 
provided $242million of additional liquidity through a 
mixture of new money and interest deferrals. i hope that you see fit to support this 
initiative which will give avanti a significantly strengthened balance 
sheet and remove a significant impediment to sales growth. trading 
trading in the first half of the year was slower than hoped for 
primarily as a result of the uncertainty associated with the strategic 
review which the company initiated in july 2016. 
this uncertainty manifested itself in lower than normal levels of 
pipeline conversion and an extension in the sales cycle. this impairment effectively eliminates previously capitalised 
financing costs leaving the carrying value close to the net book 
value of the procured asset cost. strategic report 
highlights 
2 
avanti communications group plc  
annual report and accounts 2017 
 
 revenue of $56.6m for the full year (2016: $82.8m)  
 significant provision against receivable from the government of indonesia 
 impairment charges against hylas 1, hylas 2, and filiago 
 finance restructuring plan launched to equitise all of the 2023 notes, and to reduce the 
interest rate on the 2021 notes. it is proposed to issue new shares to repay all of the 2023 
notes which would reduce the group’s debt by in excess of $500m. this is subject to the agreement of the shareholders at a general 
meeting to be held in early 2018. in addition, the board has agreed 
with our bondholders, subject to necessary consents, to reduce the 
interest rate on the 2021 notes to 9% with the ability to pay cash or 
roll up the interest as appropriate. in late december 2016 we received significant new tender awards 
and signed contracts in the wi-fi and cellular backhaul markets and 
in government networks. 4. very high throughput 
the hylas fleet uses ka-band which enables 
our high throughput satellites (‘hts’) to 
transmit over 10 times more data per satellite 
than legacy systems. furthermore, 
the sat5g (satellite and terrestrial network for 5g) project has 
started well. a few notable examples are: 
satellite and terrestrial network for 5g (sat5g). live demonstrations and 
validations will take place at the testbeds for the project which are 
located in the uk, germany and finland.