a key part of the conviviality direct 
strategy is to focus on growth in 
key cities, specifically focused on 
existing customers identifying with 
the bibendum and matthew clark 
propositions and their ability to utilise 
the brands to meet all of their drinks 
purchasing needs. furthermore 770 customers 
have recognised the opportunity to 
improve order accuracy and efficiency 
by moving onto our digital platform. our core model is 
predicated by franchisee loyalty and 
commitment to upholding the values 
of our brands. the strategy aims 
to consolidate conviviality retail’s 
position as the uk’s leading drinks-
led convenience retailer. in fy17 david robinson joined us to head up conviviality retail 
and both david and mark aylwin (managing director, conviviality direct) were 
invited to join the plc board. dundee
glasgow
bellshill
boldon
wetherby
bedford
park royal
crayford
southampton
grantham
runcorn
crewe
didcot
reading
birmingham
bristol
shepton mallet
launceston
newcastle -under-lyme
owned,	stocked
owned,	not 	stocked
third party
conviviality group depot locations conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017       5
strategic report corporate governance financial statements
the uk alcohol market today is worth £40 billion and 
conviviality is responsible for around £1 in every £12 of 
industry sales (8%), from a product portfolio ranging 
from a 35p bottle of soft drink to a £15,000 bottle of 
fine wine. a recent example was the exclusive on trade launch 
of bud light for ab inbev across the conviviality group. bibendum’s first 
ever on trade customer was michelin-starred 
odette’s in primrose hill and it continues to be 
a valued customer over 30 years on. it is 
also pleasing that wine rack continues 
to perform well and during 2016 we 
opened one new wine rack in epsom. like for like performance in wine rack 
is 1.4% reflecting the importance of a 
specialist wine and spirits proposition 
on the high street. the business 
has three fundamental sources of 
advantage:
drinks heritage and expertise:
approximately 50% of sales are from 
beer, wine and spirits categories, 
producing a category mix that is unique 
in the sector. our wine buying teams have long standing relationships 
with our producers and with our customers, giving 
them the unique ability to marry customers’ needs 
with producers’ wines. conviviality is a business whose strength lies in the combined skills and expertise 
of the enlarged group, “one conviviality”, a business where the whole is greater 
than the sum of the parts and that has the firm foundations in place from which 
to grow. this integration has resulted in a full 
restructuring of the business, from a programme to generate significant buying 
synergies, the development of one group wine buying team, to the development 
of the group logistics function. i am proud that, against this backdrop the teams in all of the business units have 
stayed on track in integrating the business and ensuring that, first and foremost, 
our customers see the passion for their success and growth regardless of size of 
business and continue to benefit from the expertise of the combined group. as 
the uk economic and political environment remains uncertain, we believe that 
conviviality has the flexibility to succeed through our unique model spanning 
both the on and off trade. everyone 
who works for conviviality from glasgow to 
southampton, and bristol to crewe, from shop 
to depot to office, knows it is critical that we 
keep finding new ways to improve our customer 
service and deliver excellence. this includes non-traditional 
areas like outdoor events, pop ups 
and festivals. by standing in the shoes of our customers and understanding and anticipating 
their needs the team are able to deliver solutions to ensure their success
jd wetherspoons
“our two companies have had a working 
relationship for over 25 years. be it business, 
marriage or friendship; in a relationship lasting 
this many years, both parties evolve and 
constantly adapt. operational highlights
revenues nearly doubled to 
£1,560m	and	profits
2
 doubled 
to £60.9m
buying synergies for fy17 
achieved to plan 
acquired the bibendum plb 
group	 on	20 	may	2016,	which	
is 	 performing 	 in	line	 with	our	
expectations
combined integration plan 
ahead of expectations for 
both 	 matthew	clark	 and 	
bibendum plb group
new 	 team	and 	organisational	
structure in place and 
working	 well
conviviality retail, 
conviviality direct and 
conviviality trading have all 
traded	 strongly	with	revenues 	
of £378m, £1,040m and 
£146m respectively and are  
in	line	 with 	 expectations	
retail lfl’s
4
 continue to 
improve to (1.0%)
23 	 franchisees	 have	grown 	
their portfolios during the 
period
financial highlights
revenue
1
 £m
£1,560m
increase of 85%
1
 from 2016
adjusted ebitda
2
 £m
£60.9m
increase of 102% from 2016
profit before tax £m
£22.5m
increase of 147%
1
 from 2016
diluted eps £p
10.4p
increase of 136% from 2016
adjusted diluted eps
3
 £p
21.0p
increase of 48% from 2016
1. includes the full year revenue and profit of matthew clark and the revenue and profit of bibendum plb group from the date 
of acquisition. alternative performance measures
2. earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptional items, share based payments and fair value of foreign 
exchange derivatives. this is reconciled to ‘profit before tax’ in note 3. 3. profit before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and fair value of foreign exchange derivatives less 
tax at the effective rate, divided by fully diluted weighted average shares in issue. we look back on a year of unprecedented change politically and economically. our business has also undergone unprecedented change throughout the past 
year. we will 
continue to grow by keeping our people, 
our customers, franchisees and suppliers at 
the heart of everything we do. this past year has, therefore, been a 
transformational year for the service we offer, 
creating a range of benefits for customers. the acquisition of bibendum plb group has 
enhanced the group with additional wine expertise, access to the premium 
on trade, particularly in london, and significant capability in consumer insight 
across the alcohol sector. we believe that the recent 
acquisitions and new structure have resulted in conviviality being well positioned 
in our market with a robust business model that provides a unique positioning 
with both our suppliers and our customers. conviviality trading
a	 full 	 service 	 drinks 	 brand	 and	 wine	 agency	
business	 with 	 national	 sales	 and	 activation	
capability from traditional on and off trade 
retail, 	 to 	 festivals	 and 	 events. during the past four years we have 
systematically pursued the strategy of taking the core 
competence of the business, the wholesaling of alcohol, 
and extending conviviality’s reach to more consumers 
across the uk drinks market whenever and wherever 
they wish to enjoy our products. annual report and accounts   
2017 conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017
conviviality is a company where the 
whole is greater than the sum of the 
parts and that has firm foundations 
in place from which to grow. strategic report
1 operational & financial highlights
2 chairman’s statement
4 conviviality at a glance
6 	 chief	 executive	officer’s	 statement
18 our customers
22 our suppliers
corporate governance
42 board of directors
44 corporate governance report
47 remuneration committee report
financial statements
64 	 consolidated	statement	 of 	 profit	or	loss	 
 and other comprehensive income
65 	 consolidated 	statement	of	financial	position
66 consolidated statement of changes in equity
67 	 consolidated 	statement	of	cash	flows
68 	 notes 	to 	the	financial 	statements
26 our business model
27 our markets
30 our strategy
32 risks & mitigation factors
36 	 financial 	review
39 corporate social responsibility report
58 directors’ report
62 statement of directors’ responsibilities
63 independent auditor’s report
107 company balance sheet
108 company statement of changes in equity
109 	 company	 statement	of 	cash	flows
110 	 notes	to	the	company	financial	statements
115 directors, secretary and advisors
conviviality has fundamentally restructured and reconfigured 
the group building on our unique strength, expertise and 
reach in the uk drinks market to be the drinks and impulse 
products sector’s leading specialist wholesaler and distributor 
to the on and off trade by being the most knowledgeable 
and inspiring partner for our customers. conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017       1
strategic report corporate governance financial statements
conviviality is unique in our sector. 2 conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017
chairman’s statement
the culture we have created in the business and the structures that we operate give 
us huge confidence for our future. we provide for our customers, 
access to over 14,000 alcohol skus and 6,400 impulse, food and 
tobacco skus. we serve c.25,000 outlets in the on trade, over 700 
retail stores trading under the propositions of bargain booze, select 
convenience and wine rack, over 400 independent specialists and are 
a supplier to the supermarket multiples. 4. retail like for like sales are the retail sales made by franchisee and company owned stores that have traded continually 
during fy16 and fy17 under the same ownership. conviviality retail
the uk’s largest franchised off-licence and 
convenience	 chain	 with 	 352 	 franchisees	 and 	
more than 700 retail stores trading primarily 
under the fascia of bargain booze, select 
convenience and wine rack.