building  
sustainable 
growth
synthomer plc
annual report 2017
synthomer plc annual report 2017 synthomer is a specialist chemical  
company and one of the world’s  
leading suppliers of aqueous polymers. key pillars of our strategy
20-23
strategy in action 
how we delivered against our strategic 
objectives in 2017
26-31
segmental review
building sustainable growth in 2017
strategic report
1  highlights
2 our business at a glance
4  why synthomer? – acquisition and integration of speciality additives, a 
market leading performance additives business serving 
the decorative and industrial coatings industries, for an 
enterprise value of €78m in march 2017. – bolt-on acquisition of the basf austrian sbr business 
and assets in pischelsdorf, austria (‘basf pischelsdorf’). 10 chairman’s statement
12 chief executive officer’s review
14 our market review
16 business model
18 strategy at a glance
20 strategy in action
24 key performance indicators
26 segmental reviews
32 risk management
34 principal risks and uncertainties
38 chief financial officer’s review
44 sustainability
governance
56 letter from the chairman
58  board of directors
60  corporate governance
65 audit committee report
69 nomination committee report
70  directors’ remuneration report
85  report of the directors
88  statement of directors’ responsibilities
group financial statements
89  independent auditors’ report
95  consolidated income statement
95  consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
96  consolidated statement of changes in equity
97 consolidated balance sheet
98  consolidated cash flow statement
98 reconciliation of net cash flow from operating 
activities to movement in net borrowings
99  notes to the consolidated financial statements
company financial statements
138  statement of financial position
139  company statement of changes in equity
140  notes to the company financial statements
other information
150  five year financial summary
151  glossary of terms
ibc  advisers building sustainable growth
commercial highlights
• sustainable growth in profitability in line with expectations:
 – organic growth, contribution from acquisitions and 
foreign currency translation gains, more than offset  
the expected softening of nitrile latex margins. underlying performance differs from the statutory 
ifrs performance as it excludes the effect of special items, which are detailed in note 3. the board’s view is that underlying performance provides additional clarity for 
the group’s investors and so it is the primary focus of the group’s narrative reporting. where appropriate, ifrs performance inclusive of special items is also described. references to ‘unit margin’ and ‘margin’ are used in the commentary on underlying performance. 4-9
why synthomer? the pischelsdorf site expands our sbr asset and 
customer base, and will provide further options for our network 
optimisation in an sbr market characterised by over-capacity. outlook
looking forward, whilst acknowledging the ongoing challenges 
in our nitrile latex and constructions and coatings dispersions 
markets, we are confident of making further solid progress in 2018, 
underpinned by underlying growth in both segments, and from 
integrating our recent acquisitions. the strong growth in ena underlying profitability was underpinned 
by further organic growth, particularly in our sbr business, the 
benefits of our focused m&a activity and the associated synergies in 
2016 and 2017, and the depreciation in sterling which favourably 
impacted our first half results. priorities
continued operational and sales synergies. capacity and capability expansion and 
debottlenecking, operational efficiencies 
and plant network optimisation. innovation and operational efficiencies. integration of new acquisition, debottlenecking and asset 
rationalisation. principal 
markets served
construction, coatings, adhesives 
and textiles. paper, carpet and foam markets. specialist markets including automotive, pvc manufacture, 
construction and polymer manufacture. main product 
areas
cement modification, primers, flooring 
adhesives, flexible roof coatings, 
emulsion and specialist paints, coatings 
and oilfields. • europe and north america (ena) momentum 
underpinned by volume and margin improvement:
 – underlying operating profit at £117.1m increased 
25.5% (2016: £93.3m) due to volume and margin  
growth, the acquisition of oxo belgium (‘speciality 
additives’) and foreign currency translation gains. – ifrs operating profit at £77.5m increased 2.8% 
(2016: £75.4m). • asia and rest of the world (arw) in line with 
expectations in challenging market environment:
 – underlying operating profit lower by 27.9% at £35.1m 
(2016: £48.7m) mainly driven by expected lower unit 
margin in nitrile latex. – the demand for nitrile latex continues to grow at 8-10% 
pa, with market demand exceeding 1,000ktes in 2017
 – ifrs operating profit down 61.6% to £31.2m 
(2016: £81.3m) principally reflecting significant 
income from land sales in 2016. asia and rest of the world
where we 
manufacture 
malaysia, vietnam, thailand and 
middle east. malaysia. malaysia. malaysia. mega-trends
europe and north america 
where we 
manufacture 
usa, germany, italy, spain, france, uk 
and czech republic. italy. germany, italy, finland, uk, netherlands and egypt. uk, italy, belgium and czech republic. with the acquisition  
in 2017 of the speciality additives business and in  
2018 of the basf pischelsdorf business, synthomer 
continues to grow its global manufacturing network 
and introduce new products, geographical strength 
and capacity to support future growth. acquisition of the basf pischelsdorf sbr 
business which enhances our current 
business and production network 
in high growth paper/packaging 
applications as well as increasing 
the group’s access to attractive 
new opportunities across europe. nitrile latex continues to 
be a rapidly growing market. a robust 
financial position
three years of underlying profit growth delivering positive  
cash inflows from operating activities which have  
allowed us to invest in strategic m&a and capital 
investment to drive sustainable growth. we produce innovative formulations to 
support customers in a range of industries 
from construction and coatings to healthcare. the product’s 
unique qualities address key customer 
requirements around manufacturing 
efficiency, odour, colour and chemical 
resistance. innovative solutions 
that create and 
sustain value
we recognise the importance of innovation to our success  
and that of our customers. the group continues to actively assess both 
transformational and bolt-on acquisition opportunities  
in parallel with growing the business organically.