we are proud to have now delivered a 7-year revenue cagr of 23.9% and a 7-year 
adjusted ebitda cagr of 32.2%. on a like for 
like basis the increase was 28.0% 
• north america now accounts for 70% of ecommerce ticket volume (2016: 89%), with europe accelerating to 25% (2016: 9%) 
• 42% of ecommerce volume now takes place via a mobile device (2016: 35%) 
• accesso loqueue like for like attendance data was broadly flat 
 
the gross profit margin in 2017 was 55.0%, compared to 54.0% in 2016, reflecting the improvement in our mix of revenue towards 
higher margin offerings and a higher level of non-recurring services revenues than in the comparative period. we estimate that for the full year 81% (2016: 91%) of group revenue is repeatable in nature. adjusted ebitda and operating profit 
adjusted ebitda of $24.6m was up from $19.1m, an increase of 28.8%. we continue to increase the number of combined deployments of accesso technologies, with the 
addition of ingresso and te2 strengthening our hand still further. during 2017 we saw a number of positive developments in these verticals, with none more important than the continued roll out of 
accesso prism, our state-of-the-art in-park wearable device. supported by accesso passport, their ability to utilise monthly payment plans 
accelerated the trend. while the adjustment has led to certain changes in guest visitation behaviour, the strength and versatility of 
accesso prism’s commercial model opens up a range of new in-park revenue opportunities. registered number 03959429 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accesso technology group plc 
 
2017 annual report and financial statements  
 
 
   accesso technology group plc 
1 
 
contents of the consolidated financial statements 
for the financial year ended 31 december 2017 
 
 
 
 page 
company information 2 
  
introduction and key financial highlights 3 
  
chairman's statement 5 
  
chief executive’s statement 6 
  
the board of directors 11 
  
strategic report 13 
  
report of the directors 15 
  
directors’ remuneration report 18 
  
statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements 21 
  
report of the independent auditor to the members of accesso technology group plc 22 
  
consolidated statement of comprehensive income 27 
  
consolidated statement of financial position 28 
  
company statement of financial position 29 
  
consolidated statement of cash flow 30 
  
company statement of cash flow 31 
  
consolidated statement of changes in equity 32 
  
company statement of changes in equity 33 
  
notes to the consolidated financial statements 34 
 
 
 
 
   accesso technology group plc 
2 
 
company information 
for the financial year ended 31 december 2017 
 
 directors: tom burnet, executive chairman 
  john alder, executive 
  steve brown, executive 
  david gammon, non-executive  
  karen slatford, non-executive 
  john weston, senior independent director 
   
   
 secretary: martha bruce 
  7 clifton terrace 
  cliftonville, dorking 
  surrey 
  rh4 2jg 
   
   
 registered office: unit 5, the pavilions  
  ruscombe park 
  twyford 
  berkshire 
  rg10 9nn 
   
   
 registered number: 03959429 (england and wales) 
   
   
 auditor: kpmg llp 
  arlington business park 
  theale 
  reading 
  berkshire 
  rg7 4sd 
   
   
 bankers: lloyds bank plc 
  the atrium 
  davidson house 
  forbury square 
  reading 
  berkshire 
  rg1 3eu 
   
   
 
 
   accesso technology group plc 
3 
 
introduction and key financial highlights 
for the financial year ended 31 december 2017 
 
financial highlights 
 
year ended      year ended      
 
  
31 dec 17   31 dec 16     
 
     (audited)       (audited)      change  
     $m     $m      
revenue  
 
133.4 
 
102.5  
 
+30.1% 
       
operating profit  9.2  10.5  -12.4% 
adjusted operating profit * 
 
19.1 
 
15.7 
 
+21.7% 
       
adjusted ebitda* 
 
24.6 
 
19.1 
 
+28.8% 
       
cash generated from operations  
 
33.1 
 
18.6 
 
+78.0% 
adjusted cash generated from operations**  21.2  18.6  +14.0% 
underlying cash conversion*** 
 
86.2% 
 
97.4% 
  
net cash/ (debt) **** 
 
12.5 
 
(3.4) 
 
$15.9m 
       
earnings per share – basic (cents)  40.83  33.95  +20.3% 
adjusted earnings per share – basic (cents) *****   56.73 
 
51.48 
 
+10.2% 
 
* adjusted operating measures are based on reported profit numbers excluding acquisition expenses, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, charges relating to any contingent element of acquisition consideration, and share-based payments. ** cash generated from operations, less specific cash balances as detailed on page 10 
*** adjusted cash generated from operations as a percentage of adjusted ebitda 
**** cash less borrowings. page 14 
***** adjusted for acquisition expenses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, charges relating to any contingent element of 
acquisition consideration, share-based payments, net of tax effect, and the revaluation of us deferred tax assets and liabilities. during the year we delivered revenue of $133.4m up 
from $102.5m last year, while operating profit was $9.2m in 2017, from $10.5m in 2016, as the income statement absorbed the 
acquisition expenses of the two acquisitions made in the period and ongoing non-cash charges related to the acquisition strategy that 
the group has followed over recent years. we have also announced that steve brown will be stepping down as accesso’s ceo in april 2018 to be replaced by paul 
noland. we are 
delighted to be welcoming paul to accesso. tom burnet 
executive chairman  
   accesso technology group plc 
6 
 
chief executive’s statement 
 
operational review 
accesso has once again made significant strides in 2017. we continue to win a range of business across the group and geographic 
expansion continues at a good pace. this   accesso technology group plc 
7 
 
chief executive’s statement (continued) 
 
represented a joint win with accesso passport, which also is now used by the nfl experience in times square, new york and the cnn 
studio tour in atlanta, georgia. we continue to execute on our strategy with precision and focus, and we are continuing to see the 
rewards. our financial performance was ahead of our expectations, and our resilience as a global business is becoming more evident. our clients 
are increasingly seeing the benefit we bring to their customers, and in turn their own profitability. this is evidenced by today’s results 
with another profitable period for our own growth at accesso. on 
behalf of the board, i thank them all wholeheartedly for their efforts. accesso technology group plc 
8 
 
chief executive’s statement (continued) 
 
information security 
another increasingly important element of our business relates to information security, which is at the heart of all development 
decisions. the board views these apms as more representative of the group’s performance as they remove certain items which are not reflective 
of the underlying business, including acquisition expenses, amortisation related to acquired intangibles, deferred and contingent 
payments related to acquisitions, changes to earn-out considerations and share-based payments. by making these adjustments, the group is more readily comparable against a business 
that does not have the same acquisition history and share-based payment policy. david joined accesso in november 2010 and is a member of the remuneration committee and the chair of the audit committee. karen is a member of accesso’s audit committee and the chair of the remuneration committee. john is a member of accesso’s audit and remuneration committees. see the 
chief executive’s statement on pages 6-10 for a discussion of the metrics. alternative performance measures 
the board utilises consistent alternative performance measures (“apms”) in evaluating and presenting the results of the business. a reconciliation of these measures from ifrs is provided below. executive remuneration plans, incorporating long-term incentives, have been implemented to mitigate this risk. linked to 
this, the group is committed to protecting its technology by the development and/or purchase of patents and will take appropriate 
action to defend its intellectual property rights or ensure infringers enter into licensing arrangements. page 
48 
 
operational highlights – broadening our horizons 
o strong performance continues with new business wins, renewed partnerships, geographic expansion and new acquisitions 
driving growth from our evolved offering 
o accesso extends leadership in traditional verticals through product innovation, while applying expertise to greenfield 
opportunities with similar guest-management challenges 
o acquisitions of ingresso and the experience engine (te2) broaden our reach, enhance our technology offering and help us 
impact more of the digital guest journey 
 
strength at our core, innovating for the future in our established verticals (theme parks, water parks) 
o installed accesso prism as the backbone of the world’s first 100% virtual queuing based water park, winning the iaapa award 
for most impactful new product across the industry  
o total accesso passport volumes up 37% reflecting, in part, the continued merlin rollout 
o key new customer win in geography of growing importance with village roadshow theme parks, queensland (accesso 
passport)   
 
growing scale and expanding globally in our adjacent verticals (ski resorts, cultural attractions, tours and live event ticketing) 
o 55 new customers for accesso showare during the year including ski resorts, walking destinations, sports clubs and museums  
o real-time interface between accesso showare and ingresso completed, allowing accesso showare customers to list and sell 
their tickets on numerous ecommerce platforms, expanding reach and driving revenue 
o event tickets sold for concerts given by bruno mars, ed sheeran, john mayer, green day and jack johnson among others 
o accesso siriusware continues its global expansion with customer wins now including watercourse distillery limited in ireland 
and experiencias xcaret in mexico, rolling out 400 accesso siriusware salespoints across its 6 popular ecotourism venues 
 
 expanding our impact on the digital guest journey across a number of greenfield opportunities 
o te2, acquired in july 2017, extending accesso’s offer with digitalisation and personalisation software 
o mobile technology allows operators to reach out to their guests and offer seamless, integrated experiences using data-driven 
insights to understand and act on preferences 
o impressive early performance opening up new verticals including healthcare with the announcement of henry ford health 
systems partnership post period end 
o ingresso, acquired in march 2017, helps ticket-sellers find new routes to market via third party channels 
o volume growth of 67% year-on-year reflects customer wins including ticketmaster uk, opening up access to west end 
theatres in london 
 
 
 
 
  accesso technology group plc 
4 
 
commenting on the results, tom burnet, executive chairman of accesso, said:  
 
“this has been another strong year. accesso has an extremely bright 
future ahead with paul noland at the helm.” 
 
 
  
 
   accesso technology group plc 
5 
 
chairman’s statement 
 
redefining the guest journey 
 
2017 was another year of growth and expansion for accesso as we integrated new acquisitions, rolled-out market-leading technology 
and won new business across the world. we are increasingly establishing ourselves beyond our traditional theme and water park markets, making particular progress in ski and 
snow sports, cultural attractions, museums, sports stadia, live music events and many more areas where we see the opportunity to 
expand. one team 
accesso’s people are the bedrock of the company’s success. page 14. having decided to step down from my role as ceo, i know i am leaving the group in fantastic hands. steve has made an outstanding contribution to the group since 2012 and we wish him all the very best for the future.