cash limit (paid in, paid out or exchanged) of £250,000 per annum. *maximum mortgage term 20 years. the preliminary estimate 
of gdp growth of 0.4% in the july to september 
quarter was up slightly from second quarter growth 
of 0.3%, but year-on-year growth reduced to 1.5%, 
down from 1.7% the previous quarter. in response to 
this slowing growth, the bank of england (boe) has 
reduced its economic growth forecasts for both 
2017 and 2018, to 1.7% and 1.6% respectively. despite the 
uncertainty surrounding brexit negotiations and 
increased inflation causing real wage deflation, 
we have not seen a deterioration in the quality of 
our assets and we remain focused on delivering 
sustainable growth within our prudent risk appetite. as the only truly full-service challenger bank of 
scale across both retail and sme in the uk market, 
we have delivered ahead of market growth in both 
mortgages and sme lending and we remain on track 
to deliver our commitment to provide up to £6bn 
of lending to smes by the end of 2019. 
our results show improved underlying profit, 
sustainable loan growth, a stable margin and 
improved returns – all achieved in a highly 
competitive market and a continuing low growth, 
low interest rate environment. because we 
believe businesses from here should be 
rewarded for banking here. the commercial mortgage amount and term oﬀ ered will depend on an assessment of your business circumstances. to achieve our objectives, we are streamlining our front and  
back office, investing in our digital platform to accelerate  
the adoption of mobile and online tools and increasing 
in-branch automation. … underpinned by our three 
strategic priorities …
drive sustainable customer growth
by investing to broaden the franchise across our target 
segments and core regions while enhancing the customer 
experience. improve efficiency
by making our network, operations and organisation more 
efficient and agile for staff and customers. the 
continued delivery of our strategy should help us to 
build on this firm foundation as we move forward. we serve nearly three million customers through  
an omni-channel model of online, mobile and 
telephone banking, together with a network  
of 169 branches and 40 business banking centres,  
located mostly in the uk’s economic heartlands  
of scotland, the north of england and the midlands. … and distributed through  
our omni-channel model
our omni-channel model is focused on delivering an  
improved service across every channel where we serve  
and support our customers. our strong and growing digital offering, combined with the 
branch network, contact centre and extensive broker channel, 
provides an enviable position from which to grow our business. underpinned by omni-channel delivery cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017 7
strategic report governance financial results risk report financial statements additional information
 whether it is prototyping new 
technologies, opening our first 
consumer innovation lab, studio b, 
or collaborating with fintech partners 
with the development of our new 
small business e-lending solution, 
we are building a bank focused on 
a differentiated customer experience 
that will put customers more in 
control of their money. clydesdale bank plc. clydesdale bank plc. capital optimisation
by securing internal ratings-based (irb) accreditation and 
deploying our capital to support our business ambitions while 
balancing risk and reward. we have also continued to work through 
our legacy conduct issues and our statutory profit 
includes the impact of a conduct charge of £58m 
primarily due to historical payment protection 
insurance (ppi) mis-selling. clydesdale bank plc is authorised by the prudential regulation authority and regulated by the financial conduct authority and the prudential regulation authority (financial services register no. financial results
cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017 17
regulatory and political environment
the group continues to operate in a demanding 
regulatory and political climate. certain figures contained in this document, including financial information, may have been subject to rounding adjustments and foreign 
exchange conversions. accordingly, in certain instances, the sum or percentage change of the numbers contained in this document may 
not conform exactly to the total figure given. economic conditions in the uk remain muted 
but, for the moment at least, stable. i would also like to 
personally thank richard gregory who left the board 
in january for his contribution over many years. 121873). registered in scotland (no. sc001111). registered office: 30 st. vincent place, glasgow, g1 2hl. almost 7,000 
volunteering hours were undertaken during 2017 
and, with matching through our charity foundation, 
we have raised over £5.8m for our charity partner 
hospice uk among a number of other initiatives. i would like to thank all of our colleagues, the 
executive leadership team and the board for 
their continued dedication and commitment to 
the transformation of cybg. our performance in 2017 represents a significant 
achievement. cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017 6
strategic report
our strategy
this means continuing to focus on transforming 
our culture and being recognised as a leading 
consumer brand and a great place to work. cybg plc
registered number 09595911 (england and wales)
arbn 609 948 281 (australia)
we are proud to have
been serving our
customers and communities
for over 175 years
www.cybg.com
head ofﬁce:
30 st. vincent place
glasgow
g1 2hl 
london ofﬁce:
floor 15, the leadenhall building
122 leadenhall street
london ec3v 4ab 
registered ofﬁce:
20 merrion way
leeds, west yorkshire
ls2 8nz 
annual report and accounts 2017
a different way of banking
a diffe ren t 
way of banking
annual report and accounts 2017  cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017 1
strategic report governance financial results risk report financial statements additional information
what’s inside this report
strategic report
group at a glance 2
2017 highlights 3
chairman’s statement 5
our strategy 6
chief executive officer’s review 7
how we create value 10
strategy in action 12
measuring our performance 14
environment and market outlook 16
risk overview 18
operational review 22
delivering to our stakeholders 28
overview of group results 38
financial performance review 41
governance
chairman’s letter 50
board of directors 52
executive leadership team 60
corporate governance report 62
governance and nomination committee report 76
audit committee report 79
risk committee report  88
statement by the chair of the  
remuneration committee 94
directors’ remuneration report  96
directors’ report  123
risk report
risk report 128
risk classes  137
 credit risk  138
 balance sheet and prudential regulation risks  154
 regulatory, compliance and conduct risk  172
 operational risk (including people risks) 173
 financial crime risk  174
 strategic, business and financial  
 performance risk 175
financial statements
independent auditor’s report to the  
members of cybg plc 178
consolidated financial statements  186
company financial statements  241
additional information
measuring financial performance – glossary 250
glossary  253
abbreviations  259
country by country reporting 260
shareholder information  261
forward-looking statements  263
who we are 
cybg plc is a full-service bank focused on uk 
consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises 
(smes), operating under the clydesdale bank, 
yorkshire bank and b brands. the forward-looking statements disclaimer can be found on page 263. cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017 2
strategic report
group at a glance
our business is delivered 
through our key brands …
cybg operates through the retail and commercial banks 
clydesdale bank, established in 1838 in glasgow, 
yorkshire bank, founded in 1859 in halifax, and through  
the digital banking service b, created in 2016. our significant scale
2.7m customers
£32bn loans
£28bn deposits
169 retail branches strategic report governance financial results risk report financial statements additional information
3 cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017
 
2017 highlights
delivering sustainable 
customer growth
+7.5% 
mortgage lending annual growth
+5.9% 
sme core lending annual growth
stable  
net interest margin  
(nim)
2.27% 
 
improving efficiency
7.4% 
reduction in underlying costs
positive 
jaws
first statutory profit  
in over 5 years
£182m 
statutory profit
strongly capitalised
12.4% 
common equity tier 1 (cet1) ratio
improving returns
7.5% 
underlying return on tangible equity 
(rote)
inaugural dividend 
recommended  
by the board
1.0 
pence per share
note: the key performance indicators (kpis) used by management in monitoring the group’s performance and reflected 
throughout this section are determined on a combination of bases (including statutory, regulatory and alternative 
performance measures), as detailed in the glossary on page 253. cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017 4 cybg plc annual report and accounts 2017 5
strategic report governance financial results risk report financial statements additional information
strategic report
chairman’s statement
2017 was another year of strong progress for 
cybg, with good momentum in the execution of 
the three pillars of our strategic plan – sustainable 
customer growth, efficiency and capital optimisation 
– and with it the successful delivery of our financial 
targets for 2017. the hard work of the board, the 
executive leadership team and all of our colleagues 
means i am pleased to be able to reiterate our 
medium-term guidance with renewed confidence. the group’s successful delivery this year means 
that i am pleased to announce that the board is 
recommending the payment of our inaugural dividend 
of 1.0 pence per share.