iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017
our year
iomart has enjoyed another exciting year of 
growth with revenues increasing by 17% to 
£89.6m. girish maheswar, senior product manager, 
esourcing for exostar  iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017
financial statements for year ended 31march 2017
6
highlights
 financial highlights
· revenue growth of 17% to £89.6m (2016: £76.3m)
 - cloud services segment organic revenue growth of 10% (2016: 9%)
· adjusted ebitda
1
 growth of 13% to £36.6m (2016: £32.3m)
· adjusted profit before tax growth
2
 of 18% to £22.4m (2016: £19.0m)
· adjusted diluted earnings per share
3
 from operations increased by 18% to 16.99p (2016: 14.44p)
· cashflow from operations increased by 22% to £37.8m (2016: £30.9m)
· adjusted profit before tax
2
 margins maintained at 25% (2016: 25%)
· proposed final dividend increased by 90% to 6.00p per share (2016: 3.15p per share)
 operational highlights
· acquisition of cristie data during the year for a net consideration of £0.7m
· acquisition of dediserve post year end for a consideration of €7.9m
· further investment in skills and accreditations to support broadening service offering
· strengthened relationships with hypercloud vendors
 statutory equivalents
the above highlights are based on adjusted results. the statutory equivalents of the above results are 
as follows:
· profit before tax growth of 13% to £14.7m (2016: £13.0m)
· basic earnings per share from operations increased by 9% to 11.27p (2016: 10.32p)
1 throughout these financial statements adjusted ebitda is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) before share based payment charges, acquisition costs and in the previous 
year the gain on revaluation of contingent consideration. we had previously committed to paying up to 25% of our adjusted diluted earnings per share by 
way of dividend and last year our pay-out ratio was 22%. the opportunity remains to continue to grow both organically and through a disciplined acquisition strategy. our back-up and disaster recovery specialism is primarily sold through backup technology. having a consultancy division within the group allows us to engage at an earlier stage 
with organisations considering their cloud strategy and provides the opportunity to leverage the provision of those consultancy services 
to gain recurring revenue through the deployment of cloud solutions. we continue to build on our skills and accreditations and see constant improvement across the group’s skillset. as a result we are improving our dividend 
policy to reflect this ongoing growth and our 
confidence in the future. we also have points of presence in 
16 locations globally to extend our reach for our customers. iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017
“iomart continue to be a pleasure to work with. a full reconciliation between adjusted and 
statutory results is contained within this statement. we believe that iomart is one of the most compliant organisations with regard to security and certification in the sector. these are not all the risks which the board has identified 
but those that the directors currently consider to be the most material. in all cases these supplies are 
obtained from reputable organisations chosen after a thorough selection process. iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017
as the company is listed on the alternative investment market it is not required to comply with the provisions of the uk corporate 
governance code (the “code”) issued in september 2014. however, the board is committed to ensuring that proper standards of 
corporate governance operate and has established governance procedures and policies that are considered appropriate to the nature 
and size of the group. not only do we design, build and deploy bespoke cloud platforms in 
our data centres, we provide the network connectivity, security services 
and technical expertise to support them 24x7. our consultants help organisations decide how to take their very first 
steps into the cloud, while our comprehensive portfolio of managed 
services helps the biggest global brands consolidate and strengthen 
their enterprise it while protecting their data across multiple 
geographical locations. in a world where cyber-attacks are a constant threat, iomart works 
with the world’s leading technology vendors to provide secure cloud 
solutions and multi-layered defence to customers. iomart is proud to be the uk’s most accredited cloud services company 
and a trusted partner to business. iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017 iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017
overview
 about iomart 1
 highlights 6
strategic report
 chairman’s statement 7
 chief executive officer’s report 8
 finance director's report 10
 key performance indicators and principal risks and uncertainties 14
corporate governance
 board of directors 16
 corporate governance report 17
 report of the board to the members on directors’ remuneration 22
 directors' report 28
 directors' responsibilities statement 30
financial statements
 independent auditor's report to the members of iomart group plc 31
 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 32
 consolidated statement of financial position 33
 consolidated statement of cash flows 34
 consolidated statement of changes in equity 35
 notes to the financial statements 36
 parent company financial statements 68
annual general meeting
 notice of annual general meeting 80
officers and professional advisers 
 officers and professional advisers 84
contents iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017
about iomart
iomart provides managed cloud services to support businesses and 
organisations of all sizes in their digital transformation. sarah haran, who has served as an executive director of iomart throughout the time the group has been listed on aim, decided 
to step down from the board at the end of this financial year. after nearly 6 years of first class commitment and service, crawford beveridge has chosen not to stand for re-election as 
non-executive director at our forthcoming annual general meeting. angus macsween
chief executive officer
12 june 2017
strategic report. they 
afford us a wealth of technical and commercial 
expertise as well as hands-on account management 
and assist with planning complex requirements at 
every stage. iomart’s knowledge and appetite to 
deliver, combined with our in-house development 
team and contract expertise, ensures cemar remains 
highly available, fast, secure, resilient and flexible for 
our clients.”
daniel walker, infrastructure director for cemar iomart group plc annual report and accounts 2017
“with iomart's partnership, we were able to 
strengthen our infrastructure model within the 
uk, enabling us to provide various solutions that 
meet uk government regulatory compliance, and 
deliver the value our customers have come to 
expect from exostar." all of this progress is a result of a great deal of hard work by our executives and staff and i thank them all on behalf of the board 
and the shareholders for their efforts over the year. she has given many years of loyal and valuable service to the 
group and on behalf of all shareholders i thank her warmly for her service. whilst our gross margin 
percentage has reduced our adjusted profit before tax percentage margin has been maintained partly due to the offsetting savings 
when providing public cloud solutions. the cloud services segment increased its absolute level of margin over the period whilst experiencing 
a modest reduction in its percentage margin, the easyspace segment increased both its absolute and percentage margin and the 
non-recurring revenue segment has a lower adjusted ebitda contribution than the other segments which contributed to the overall 
adjusted ebitda percentage margin reduction. this was offset by administrative expenses rising at 
a slower rate than revenue which improved the segment’s ebitda percentage margin. excluding the acquisition, 
adjusted ebitda increased slightly as a result of the increase in organic revenue. throughout these financial statements acquisition costs are defined as acquisition related costs and non-recurring acquisition integration costs. 2 throughout these financial statements adjusted profit before tax is profit before tax, amortisation charges on acquired intangible assets, share based payment charges, mark to market adjustments 
in respect of interest rate swaps, acquisition costs, interest on contingent consideration due and in the previous year the gain on revaluation of contingent consideration and the accelerated write off of 
arrangement fees on the bank borrowing facility which was restructured in the previous year. 3 throughout these financial statements adjusted diluted earnings per share is earnings per share before amortisation charges on acquired intangible assets, share based payment charges, mark to market 
adjustments in respect of interest rate swaps, acquisition costs, interest on contingent consideration due and in the previous year the gain on revaluation of contingent consideration and the accelerated 
write off of arrangement fees on the bank borrowing facility which was restructured in the previous year, including the taxation effect of these. we continue to offer shareholders the 
option to participate in a dividend reinvestment plan (drip) as an alternative to receiving cash. acquisitions
we again augmented our organic growth through the acquisition of cristie data limited (“cristie”) in august and after the year-end, in 
may, through the acquisition of dediserve limited (“dediserve”), a dublin based provider of cloud solutions in ten locations around the 
world. our cloud services segment grew revenues by 11% to £72.7m (2016: £65.4m). revenues within the easyspace segment grew by 22% to £13.2m (2016: £10.9m). revenues 
of £3.6m (2016: £nil) were generated in this segment in the year.