what’s in this report? it has been a year of great change outside 
m&s as well. this is a business 
that tries to do the right thing and this is 
demonstrated in many ways, from our long 
service awards to helping disadvantaged 
people into work, to the charity support 
delivered through plan a. 
this isn’t new; it is part of what has deﬁ ned 
us for over a century. in 1964 lord sieff , 
our then deputy chairman, spoke about 
our values. we believe these apms 
provide readers with important additional 
information on our business. this makes it easier for shareholders 
to see how our sustainability programme is creating 
value in our diff erent divisions. to register for 
notiﬁ cations, go to marksandspencer.com/
investors and follow the electronic shareholder 
communication link. through the 
innovation, quality and choice that we off er, 
customers know they can come to us for 
every occasion, whether it is healthy cooking 
ideas, delicious meals from around the world 
or convenient food on-the-go. details of the 53-week comparisons can be 
found in the financial review p26. alternative performance measures
this report provides alternative performance 
measures (apms) which are not deﬁ ned or speciﬁ ed 
under the requirements of international financial 
reporting standards. a plan a
risk r
read more
strategy – remuneration link
 read more on p08-09 01
annual report and financial statements 2017
our performance governance financial statements our business
 
m&s is one of the 
uk’s leading retailers. introduction
strategic report
directors’ report*
our business
02 at a glance
04 chairman’s statement
06  market & customer insights 
08  chief executive’s strategic update
12 creating sustainable value
14 connected value 
16   value creation in action
our performance
18 key performance indicators
22  our people
23  our performance review
26 financial review
30 risk management
governance
34 chairman’s governance overview
36 our board
39 succession & induction
40 board activities
42 board eff ectiveness review
43  responsibilities, oversight 
& independence
44 stakeholder engagement
46 nomination committee report
48 audit committee report
53 pensions governance
54 remuneration overview
56 remuneration at a glance
58 full remuneration policy
66 remuneration report
79 other disclosures
84 independent auditor’s report
financial statements
92  consolidated ﬁ nancial 
statements
96  notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
128  company ﬁ nancial statements
129  notes to the company ﬁ nancial 
statements
132 group ﬁ nancial record
133 glossary
135 shareholder information*
* directors’ report 
shareholder information forms part 
of the directors’ report. making 
every 
moment 
special
annual report 
& financial 
statements 2017 about our reporting
financial overview
£10.6bn
group revenue
+2.2%
6.8p + 11.9p = 18.7p
level
interim and final dividend
£1 76.4m £613.8m
-10.3% -63.5%
group profit before tax and 
adjusted items group profit before tax
30.4p 7.2p
-12.6% -70.7%
adjusted earnings per share basic earnings per share
navigating the report 
throughout this document a series of icons 
demonstrate how we’ve integrated information 
about our business model with details of our 
strategy and risk. reporting period
this year we are reporting on the 52-weeks to 1 st 
april 20 1 7 compared to last year when we reported 
on a 53-week basis, as every six years an additional 
week is included to ensure that the year-end date 
stays in line with the end of march. to provide a 
meaningful comparison with this year, all ﬁ nancial 
movements are reported on a 52-week basis, 
and excluding the 53rd week last year, unless 
otherwise noted. new for this year, 
we have included a glossary on page 1 33 which 
provides a comprehensive list of the apms that 
we use, including an explanation of how they are 
calculated, why we use them and how they can be 
reconciled to a statutory measure where relevant. more detailed 
information is available in our online 201 7 plan a 
report at marksandspencer.com/plana2017. online information 
we have comprehensive ﬁ nancial and company 
information on our website. monthly ceo updates we have introduced a monthly ceo update to c.50,000 employees via social media. quarterly skype updates our quarterly ceo/cfo trading updates are broadcast via skype to our store management teams. we have made some hard decisions. performance
i believe our food is, without exaggeration, 
among the best in the world. once again, 
we delivered a good performance in a 
tough market. the return on capital from the 
format remains compelling. nobody yet knows what the 
long-term eff ect of brexit will be. some 
have led to signiﬁ cant adjustments to our 
proﬁ ts this year and also, in the case of 
repositioning our clothing & home business, 
to some short-term reduction in our 
adjusted proﬁ ts. we also refocused our ranges on 
stylish, wearable, great-quality essentials. however, 
due to charges of £437 .4m, group proﬁ ts 
fell to £1 76.4m. plan a 
plan a is integrated throughout this report, 
demonstrating how it is embedded in every part of 
our business. in january 2007, we launched plan a to 
address the key environmental, social and 
ethical challenges facing m&s. after ten years 
and two further updates, plan a continues 
to lead the sustainable business agenda. this year we are launching a new set of 
commitments which have been developed 
to transition plan a into a new way of working 
and engaging with our customers. we also have a growing international online 
business. following a strategic review of 
our international business, we are focusing 
on our established joint venture and 
franchise partnerships and operating fewer 
wholly-owned markets. it has 
been an extraordinary honour to serve 
this company. however, we announced 
a clear strategy to focus on our strong 
franchise partnerships and our established 
joint ventures, and operate in fewer owned 
markets, by exiting ten owned, loss-making 
markets and 53 stores. we are committed to 
making every moment special 
for our customers, through 
our high quality, own-brand 
food, clothing and home 
products we offer in our 1,433 
stores worldwide and online. we sell food 
through 942 uk stores, including 253 owned 
and 383 franchise simply food stores. we sell beautifully designed, high quality, 
own-brand clothing and homeware through 
343 full-line stores, outlets and our 
m&s.com website. our womenswear, 
menswear, kidswear, lingerie, beauty and 
home products account for 40% of our uk 
turnover.