by their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the group in this annual 
report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ 
materially from those anticipated. the forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available 
at the date of preparation of this annual report and the company undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements. 2 synergies savings reflect the reduction of underlying 
staff costs as a result of individuals leaving the group 
or transferring to integration related roles that will 
cease once integration is complete. > agree governance, leadership  
roles and people processes. 2 inside front cover. to read more see our 
ceo’s review p12-16
1 these highlights have been presented on a statutory, 
underlying and pro forma basis see pages 28 and 29. please refer to pages 28 and 29 
of the annual report. see page 20 for a 
reconciliation to statutory revenue. from 
integration to 
transformation
annual report and accounts 2017
tp icap annual report and accounts 2017 tp icap facilitates the flow  
of capital and commodities 
around the world, enhancing 
investment and contributing  
to economic growth and 
financial stability . nothing in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast. > average revenue and contribution per 
broker increased in all regions. 3 underlying results represent the results excluding 
acquisition, disposal and integration costs and 
exceptional items. our role is 
to create liquidity and price discovery 
in these markets and provide insight, 
context and execution to our clients. we operate a hybrid model, where 
brokers provide market colour to clients, 
supplemented by proprietary screens 
that provide historical data, analytics 
and execution functionality. > deliver efficiencies from hr, legal, risk, compliance and finance,  
including process efficiency and it platforms. > become world leaders in broker operations by increasing efficiency. > £52m of annualised run rate synergy 
savings² achieved. > costs to achieve synergies of £79m 
(original 2017 target £40m). > headcount reduction of 295 in the period. > we reiterate our £100m synergy saving 
target by 2020.
dividend
 > final dividend proposed of 11.25 pence 
due to be paid 17 may 2018. > we are a trusted partner to our clients, enabling them to transact 
with confidence. contents
strategic report
who we are po
1
our brands ifc
2
highlights 1
integration and future growth 2
our business model 4
our strategy 6
key performance indicators 8
chairman’s statement 10
chief executive’s review 12
financial and operating review 18
risk management 36
our principal risks and uncertainties 38
corporate social responsibility 42
icap charity day 44
resources, relationships  
and responsibilities
46
governance report
chairman’s introduction to 
governance 48
board of directors 50
corporate governance report 52
report of the nominations and 
governance committee 60
report of the audit committee 62
report of the risk committee 66
directors’ remuneration report 69
directors’ report 90
statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
94
financial statements
independent auditor’s report  
to the members of tp icap plc 95
consolidated income statement 102
consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income 103
consolidated balance sheet 104
consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 105
consolidated cash flow statement 106
notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 107
company balance sheet 153
statement of changes in equity 154
notes to the financial statements 155
shareholder information 158
group undertakings 159
glossary 168
1 pull-out. we are a leading provider of proprietary 
over the counter (‘otc’) pricing information 
in the world with a unique source of data 
on financial, energy and commodities 
products. our market data is independent, 
unbiased and non-position influenced. highlights
1
strategic and  
operational highlights
strategic and operational highlights 
 > a resilient performance 
in a low volatility environment. > successful delivery of regulatory 
requirements under mifid ii. integration highlights
 > £27m synergy savings² delivered in the 
year, ahead of schedule (original 2017 
target £10m). > focus on non-compensation expenses. > our brokers match buyers and sellers of financial, energy and 
commodities products and facilitate price discovery and execution. > we provide independent data to participants in the financial, energy  
and commodities markets, including live and historical pricing content,  
and advanced valuation and risk analytics. www.tpicap.com who we are
we are a global firm of professional  
intermediaries that plays a central role  
in the world’s wholesale financial, energy  
and commodities markets. our business
tp icap provides broking professional 
intermediary services to match buyers 
and sellers of different financial, energy 
and commodities products. > build upon our belfast operation and optimise our third party spend. through the evolution of these 
solutions, we continue to work hard to 
provide our customers with more efficient 
and effective ways of trading via multiple 
protocols, such as central limit order 
books (‘clob’), volume matching, crossing 
solutions and request for quote (‘rfq’). the graphic opposite shows the way we 
operate across voice execution, electronic 
execution and hybrid voice execution. we pride ourselves on our dynamic, 
professional, ambitious and collaborative 
culture. cautionary statement
this annual report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the company, as a body, and no other 
persons. the company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any 
other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and such responsibility is expressly 
disclaimed. for example, we have created single 
support functions in finance, legal, risk, 
compliance and hr by removing duplication 
and successfully co-locating staff. in 2017, we hired eric sinclair from the 
toronto stock exchange where he spent 
16 years building out their data business.